id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	A1-14	XX hero XX has lain down and is never to rise again. XX has lain down and is never to rise again. He of well-proportioned limbs XX has lain down and is never to rise again. XX has lain down and is never to rise again. He who XX wickedness has lain down and is never to rise again. The young man XX has lain down and is never to rise again. He who was perfect in XX and feats of strength has lain down and is never to rise again. XX has lain down and is never to rise again. The lord of Kulaba has lain down and is never to rise again. He who spoke most wisely has lain down and is never to rise again. The plunderer (?) of many countries has lain down and is never to rise again. He who climbed the mountains has lain down and is never to rise again. He has lain down on his death-bed and is never to rise again. He has lain down on a couch of sighs and is never to rise again.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	A15-38	Unable to stand up, unable to sit down, he laments. Unable to eat, unable to drink, he laments. Held fast by the door-bolt of Namtar, he is unable to rise. Like a fish XX, he XX ill. Like a gazelle caught in a trap, he XX couch. Namtar, with no hands or feet XX, Namtar XX.    XX great mountains XX
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	B1-8	For six days, he XX ill. XX on his skin like resin. Lord Gilgameš XX ill. XX Unug and Kulaba. XX the words spoken XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	B9-14	Then Lord Gilgameš XX lay down (?) on the death-bed. The king XX sleep. XX his dream XX. XX assembly XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	C1-9	XX you will be accounted a god. XX render verdicts. XX will be as weighty as XX of Dumuzid.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	C10-20	XX Gilgameš XX.  XX lord of Kulaba, XX hero of the pristine mountain, XX handiwork of the gods,  XX of Ninsumun, XX Lugalbanda, XX Lord Nudimmud,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	D1-11	XX having travelled all the roads that there are, having fetched XX from its XX, having killed XX, you set up XX for future days XX. Having founded XX, you reached XX. Having brought down the old XX forgotten forever and XX, he (?) carried out correctly XX. XX the flood XX the settlements of the Land.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	E1-11	Sisig a god of dreams, the son of Utu, will provide light for him in the nether world, the place of darkness. When a funerary statue is made in honour of someone, whoever they may be, for future days, mighty youths and XX will form (?) a semicircle at the door-jambs and perform wrestling and feats of strength before them (?). In the month Neneŋar, at the festival of the ghosts, no light will be provided before them without him i.e. Gilgameš.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	E12-27	Oh Gilgameš! Enlil, the Great Mountain, the father of gods, has made kingship your destiny, but not eternal life -- Lord Gilgameš, this is how to interpret (?) XX the dream. The XX and XX of life should not make you feel sad, should not make you despair, should not make you feel depressed. You must have been told that this is what the bane of being human involves. You must have been told that this is what the cutting of your umbilical cord involved. The darkest day of humans awaits you now. The solitary place of humans awaits you now. The unstoppable flood-wave awaits you now. The unavoidable battle awaits you now. The unequal struggle awaits you now. The skirmish from which there is no escape awaits you now. But you should not go to the underworld with heart knotted in anger. May XX before Utu. XX palm-fibre XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	E28	Go ahead XX
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	F1-14	XX Enkidu, your young comrade.  XX is lying alone. XX is lying alone. XX the king XX.  XX will come to you. XX will come to you. XX will come to you. XX will come to you. XX will come to you. XX will come to you. XX will come to you.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	G1-22	XX Gilgameš XX  XX they answered him. XX he weeps. Why is XX made XX? XX Nintur has not given birth yet.   The birds of the sky XX cannot escape. The fish of the deep water cannot see XX. Having spread his net, the young fisherman will catch you (?). Who has ever seen anyone who could ascend XX from (?) the XX of the nether world? No king has ever been destined a fate like yours. Who XX anyone among mankind, whoever they may be, XX like you? XX the governorship of the nether world. You XX your ghost XX pass judgments XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	H1-21	Kulaba XX. As Unug rose XX, as Kulaba rose XX. Within the first month XX, it was not five or 10 days before they XX the Euphrates. XX its shells. Then, as in the bed of the Euphrates, the earth cracked dry. XX was built from stone. XX was built from stone. XX were hard diorite. XX its latches were hard stone. XX were cast in gold. XX heavy blocks of stone. XX heavy blocks of stone. XX brought in XX. XX for future days.  XX should not find XX. XX Gilgameš XX has established in XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	H22	His beloved XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru	I1-9	XX opened XX.  XX of Lord Gilgameš XX. XX scratched the nose for him, XX pulled out their hair for him.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru 2	1-7	His beloved wife, his beloved children, his beloved favourite and junior wife, his beloved musician, cup-bearer and XX, his beloved barber, his beloved XX, his beloved palace retainers and servants and his beloved objects were laid down in their places as if XX in the purified (?) palace in the middle of Unug.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru 2	8-28	Gilgameš, the son of Ninsumun, set out their audience-gifts for Ereškigala. He set out their gifts for Namtar. He set out their surprises for Dimpikug. He set out their presents for Neti. He set out their presents for Ninŋišzida and Dumuzid. He XX the audience-gifts for Enki, Ninki, Enmul, Ninmul, Endukuga, Nindukuga, Enindašuruma, Nindašuruma, Enmu-utula, En-me-šara, the maternal and paternal ancestors of Enlil; for Šul-pa-e, the lord of the table, for Sumugan and Ninhursaŋa, for the Anuna gods of the Holy Mound, for the Great Princes of the Holy Mound, for the dead en priests, the dead lagar priests, the dead lumah priests, the dead nindiŋir priestesses, and the dead gudug, the linen-clad and XX priests.  He set out their presents for XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru 2	29-36	XX lie down XX Ninsumun XX. Gilgameš, the son of Ninsumun, XX poured water XX.  XX scratched the nose for him. The people XX of his city XX will not XX anymore. They spread out (?) their XX in the dust.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Nibru 2	37-42	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš, who never ceases to XX for the XX of Enlil -- Gilgameš, the son of Ninsumun, XX offshoot XX; no king who could match him has ever been born,  Gilgameš, lord of Kulaba, it is sweet to praise you!
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	A1-12	The great wild bull has lain down and is never to rise again. Lord Gilgameš has lain down and is never to rise again. He who was unique in XX has lain down and is never to rise again. The hero fitted out with a shoulder-belt has lain down and is never to rise again. He who was unique in strength has lain down and is never to rise again. He who diminished wickedness has lain down and is never to rise again. He who spoke most wisely has lain down and is never to rise again. The plunderer (?) of many countries has lain down and is never to rise again. He who knew how to climb the mountains has lain down and is never to rise again. The lord of Kulaba has lain down and is never to rise again. He has lain down on his death-bed and is never to rise again. He has lain down on a couch of sighs and is never to rise again.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	A13-19	Unable to stand up, unable to sit down, he laments. Unable to eat, unable to drink, he laments. Held fast by the door-bolt of Namtar, he is unable to rise. Like a XX fish XX in a cistern, he XX ill. Like a captured gazelle buck, he XX couch. Namtar with no hands or feet, who XX one by night,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	B1-5	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	C1-9	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	D1-11	
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	E1-7	Gilgameš XX
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F1-22	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš, lay down on his death-bed.  After Lord Gilgameš had arrived at the assembly, the pre-eminent place of the gods, they said to Lord Gilgameš concerning him: As regards your case: after having travelled all the roads that there are, having fetched cedar, the unique tree, from its mountains, having killed Huwawa in his forest, you set up many stelae for future days, for days to come. Having founded many temples of the gods, you reached Zi-ud-sura in his  dwelling place  1 ms. has instead: place . Having brought down to the Land the divine powers of Sumer, which at that time were forgotten forever, the orders, and the rituals, he (?) carried out correctly the rites of hand washing and mouth washing XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F23-37	Enlil's advice was given to Enki. Enki answered An and Enlil: In those days, in those distant days, in those nights, in those distant nights, in those years, in those distant years, after the assembly had made the Flood sweep over to destroy the seed of mankind, among us I was the only one who was for life (?), and so he remained alive (?) -- Zi-ud-sura, although (?) a human being, remained alive (?). Then you made me swear by heaven and by earth, and XX that no human will be allowed to live forever (?) any more. Now, as we look at Gilgameš, could not he escape because of his mother?
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F38-41	(Another god speaks:) Let Gilgameš as a ghost, below among the dead, be the governor of the nether world. Let him be pre-eminent among the ghosts, so that he will pass judgments and render verdicts, and what he says will be as weighty as the words of Ninŋišzida and Dumuzid.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F42-62	Then young Lord Gilgameš became depressed because of (?) all mankind. You should not despair, you should not feel depressed.  Mighty youths and XX a semicircle XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F63-81	Go ahead to the place where the Anuna gods, the great gods, sit at the funerary offerings, to the place where the en priests lie, to where the lagar priests lie, to where the lumah priests and the nindiŋir priestesses lie, to where the gudug priests lie, to where the linen-clad priests lie, to where the nindiŋir priestesses lie, to where the XX lie, to the place where your father, your grandfather, your mother, your sisters, your XX, to where your precious friend, your companion, your friend Enkidu, your young comrade, and the governors appointed by the king to the Great City are, to the place where the sergeants of the army lie, to where the captains of the troops lie,  From the house of XX, the XX will come to meet you. Your jewel will come to meet you, your precious one will come to meet you. The elders of your city will come to meet you. You should not despair, you should not feel depressed.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F82-86	He will now be counted among the Anuna gods. He will be counted a companion of the  1 ms. adds: great  gods. XX the governor of the nether world. He will pass judgments and render verdicts, and what he says will be as weighty as the words of Ninŋišzida and Dumuzid.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F87-99	And then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš, woke up XX. XX his eyes, XX. XX a dream XX! XX a dream XX!  Am I to become again as I were XX on the lap of my own mother Ninsumun? XX who makes the great mountains tremble (?). Namtar with no hands or feet takes away XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F100-115	Lord Nudimmud made (?) him see a dream: After Lord Gilgameš had arrived at the assembly, the pre-eminent place of the gods, they said to Lord Gilgameš concerning him: As regards your case: after having travelled all the roads that there are, having fetched cedar, the unique tree, from its mountains, having killed Huwawa in his forest, you set up many stelae for future days XX. Having founded many temples of the gods,  Having brought down to the Land the divine powers of Sumer, which at that time were forgotten forever, the orders, and the rituals, he (?) carried out correctly the rites of hand washing and mouth washing. XX the settlements of the countries.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F116-130	XX Gilgameš XX. Enlil's advice was given to Enki. Enki answered An and Enlil: In those days, in those distant days, in those nights, in those distant nights, in those years, in those distant years, after the assembly had made the Flood sweep over to destroy the seed of mankind XX, among us I was the only one who was for life (?). He remained alive (?); Zi-ud-sura alone, although (?) a human being, remained alive (?). Then you made me swear by heaven and by earth, and I swore that no human will be allowed to live forever (?) any more. Now, as we look at Gilgameš, could not he escape because of his mother?
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F131-134	(Another god speaks:) Let Gilgameš as a ghost, below among the dead, be the governor of the nether world. Let him be pre-eminent among the ghosts, so that he will pass judgments and render verdicts, and what he says will be as weighty as the words of Ninŋišzida and Dumuzid.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F135-142	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš, became depressed because of (?) all mankind. You should not despair, you should not feel depressed.  Mighty youths and XX a semicircle XX. Without him i.e. Gilgameš XX. Sisig a god of dreams, the son of Utu, will provide light for him in the place of darkness.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F143-153	You must have been told (?) that this is what your being (?) a human involves. You must have been told (?) that this is what the cutting of your umbilical cord involved. The darkest day of humans awaits you now. The solitary place of humans awaits you now. The unstoppable flood-wave awaits you now. The unequal struggle awaits you now. The unavoidable battle awaits you now. The evil (?) from which there is no escape awaits you now. But you should not go to the underworld with heart knotted in anger. May it be XX before Utu. Let it be unravelled like palm-fibre and peeled (?) like garlic.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F154-167	Go ahead to the place where the Anuna gods, the great gods, sit at the funerary offerings, to the place where the en priests lie, to where the lagar priests lie, to where the lumah priests and the nindiŋir priestesses lie, to where the gudug priests lie, to where the linen-clad priests lie, to where the nindiŋir priestesses lie, to where the XX lie, to the place where your father, your grandfather, your mother, your sisters, your XX, to where your precious friend, your companion, your friend Enkidu, your young comrade, and the governors appointed by the king to the Great City are, to the place where the sergeants of the army lie, to where the captains of the troops lie. XX the Great City Arali XX
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F168-172	From the house of the sisters, the sisters will come to meet you. From the house of XX, XX will come to meet you. Your jewel will come to meet you, your precious one will come to met you. The elders of your city will come to meet you. You should not despair, you should not feel depressed.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	F173-174	He XX the Anuna gods. He will be counted a companion of the great gods.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	G1-5	
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	H1-9	His architect (?) designed his tomb like XX. His god Enki showed him where the solution of the dream lies by XX. No one but the XX of the king could solve the vision.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	H10-32	The lord imposed a levy on his city. The herald made the horn signal sound in all the lands: Unug, arise! Open up the Euphrates! Kulaba, arise! Divert the waters of the Euphrates! Unug's levy was a flood, Kulaba's levy was a clouded sky. Meanwhile not even the first month  had passed  1 ms. has instead: XX , it was not five or 10 days before they had opened up the Euphrates and diverted its high water. Utu looked at its shells with admiration. Then as soon as the water in the bed of the Euphrates had receded, his tomb was built there from stone. Its walls were built from stone. Its door leaves were installed in the sockets (?) of the entrance. Its bolt and thresholds were hard stone. Its door-pivots were hard stone. They installed its gold beams. Heavy blocks of stone were moved to XX. XX  was completely covered with a thick layer of  1 ms. has instead: was completely covered (?) with  dark soil. XX for future days.  XX who are searching for it should not find its precinct (?). He set up a solid house in the middle of Unug.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	H33-41	His beloved wife, his beloved children, his beloved favourite and junior wife,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	I1-7	XX Gilgameš XX  XX entered, XX its entrance. XX opened up the Euphrates, XX its water.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	I8-10	Then the young lord, Lord Gilgameš,
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	J1-11	XX Gilgameš XX
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	K1-2	XX to the city XX. XX smeared with dust XX.
t.1.8.1.3	The death of Gilgameš	Me-Turan	K3-12	XX Lord Gilgameš despaired and felt depressed. For all the people, whoever they may be, funerary statues are made for future days, and set aside in the temples of the gods. Their names, once uttered, do not sink into oblivion. Aruru, the older sister of Enlil, provides them with offspring for that purpose (?). Their statues are made for future days and they are mentioned in the Land. Ereškigala, mother of Ninazu, it is sweet to praise you!
