id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	1-26	In those days, in those distant days, in those nights, in those remote nights, in those years, in those distant years; in days of yore, when the necessary things had been brought into manifest existence, in days of yore, when the necessary things had been for the first time properly cared for, when bread had been tasted for the first time in the shrines of the Land, when the ovens of the Land had been made to work, when the heavens had been separated from the earth, when the earth had been delimited from the heavens, when the fame of mankind had been established, when An had taken the heavens for himself, when Enlil had taken the earth for himself, when the nether world had been given to Ereškigala as a gift; when he set sail, when he set sail, when the father set sail for the nether world, when Enki set sail for the nether world -- against the king a storm of small hailstones arose, against Enki a storm of large hailstones arose. The small ones were light hammers, the large ones were like stones from catapults (?). The keel of Enki's little boat was trembling as if it were being butted by turtles, the waves at the bow of the boat rose to devour the king like wolves and the waves at the stern of the boat were attacking Enki like a lion.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	27-35	At that time, there was a single tree, a single halub tree, a single tree, growing on the bank of the pure Euphrates, being watered by the Euphrates. The force of the south wind uprooted it and stripped its branches, and the Euphrates picked it up and carried it away. A woman, respectful of An's words, was walking along; a woman, respectful of Enlil's words, was walking along, and took the tree and brought it into Unug, into Inana's luxuriant garden.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	36-46	The woman planted the tree with her feet, but not with her hands. The woman watered it using her feet but not her hands. She said: When will this be a luxuriant chair on which I can take a seat? She said: When this will be a luxuriant bed on which I can lie down? Five years, 10 years went by, the tree grew massive; its bark, however, did not split. At its roots, a snake immune to incantations made itself a nest. In its branches, the Anzud bird settled its young. In its trunk, the phantom maid built herself a dwelling, the maid who laughs with a joyful heart. But holy Inana cried!
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	47-69	When dawn was breaking, when the horizon became bright, when the little birds, at the break of dawn, began to clamour, when Utu had left his bedchamber, his sister holy Inana said to the young warrior Utu: My brother, in those days when destiny was determined, when abundance overflowed in the Land, when An had taken the heavens for himself, when Enlil had taken the earth for himself, when the nether world had been given to Ereškigala as a gift; when he set sail, when he set sail, when the father set sail for the nether world, when Enki set sail for the nether world -- against the lord a storm of small hailstones arose, against Enki a storm of large hailstones arose. The small ones were light hammers, the large ones were like stones from catapults (?). The keel of Enki's little boat was trembling as if it were being butted by turtles, the waves at the bow of the boat rose to devour the lord like wolves and the waves at the stern of the boat were attacking Enki like a lion.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	70-78	At that time, there was a single tree, a single halub tree, a single tree (?), growing on the bank of the pure Euphrates, being watered by the Euphrates. The force of the south wind uprooted it and stripped its branches, and the Euphrates picked it up and carried it away. I, a woman, respectful of An's words, was walking along; I, a woman, respectful of Enlil's words, was walking along, and took the tree and brought it into Unug, into holy Inana's luxuriant garden.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	79-90	I, the woman, planted the tree with my feet, but not with my hands. I,  Inana  1 ms. has instead: the woman , watered it using my feet but not my hands. She said: When will this be a luxuriant chair on which I can take a seat? She said: When will this be a luxuriant bed on which I can lie down? Five years, 10 years had gone by, the tree had grown massive; its bark, however, did not split. At its roots, a snake immune to incantations made itself a nest. In its branches, the Anzud bird settled its young. In its trunk, the phantom maid built herself a dwelling, the maid who laughs with a joyful heart. But holy Inana cried! Her brother, the young warrior Utu, however, did not stand by her in the matter.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	91-113	When dawn was breaking, when the horizon became bright, when the little birds, at the break of dawn, began to clamour, when Utu had left his bedchamber, his sister holy Inana said to the warrior Gilgameš: My brother, in those days when destiny was determined, when abundance overflowed in the Land, when An had taken the heavens for himself, when Enlil had taken the earth for himself, when the nether world had been given to Ereškigala as a gift; when he set sail, when he set sail, when the father set sail for the nether world, when Enki set sail for the nether world -- against the lord a storm of small hailstones arose, against Enki a storm of large hailstones arose. The small ones were light hammers, the large ones were like stones from catapults (?). The keel of Enki's little boat was trembling as if it were being butted by turtles, the waves at the bow of the boat rose to devour the lord like wolves and the waves at the stern of the boat were attacking Enki like a lion.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	114-122	At that time, there was a single tree, a single halub tree, a single tree (?), growing on the bank of the pure Euphrates, being watered by the Euphrates. The force of the south wind uprooted it and stripped its branches, and the Euphrates picked it up and carried it away. I, a woman, respectful of An's words, was walking along; I, a woman, respectful of Enlil's words, was walking along, and took the tree and brought it into Unug, into Inana's luxuriant garden.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	123-135	The woman planted the tree with her feet, but not with her hands. Inana watered it using her feet but not her hands. She said: When will this be a luxuriant chair on which I can take a seat? She said: When will this be a luxuriant bed on which I can lie down? Five years, 10 years had gone by, the tree had grown massive; its bark, however, did not split. At its roots, a snake immune to incantations made itself a nest. In its branches, the Anzud bird settled its young. In its trunk, the phantom maid built herself a dwelling, the maid who laughs with a joyful heart. But  holy Inana  1 ms. has instead: I, holy Inana,  cried! In the matter which his sister had told him about, her brother, the warrior Gilgameš, stood by her.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	136-150	He  strapped  1 ms. has instead: XX  his XX belt of 50 minas weight to his waist -- 50 minas were to him as 30 shekels. He took his bronze axe used for expeditions, which weighs seven talents and seven minas, in his hand. He killed the snake immune to incantations living at its roots. The Anzud bird living in its branches took up its young and went into the mountains. The phantom maid living in its trunk left (?) her dwelling and sought refuge in the wilderness. As for the tree, he uprooted it and stripped its branches, and the sons of his city, who went with him, cut up its branches and  bundled them  1 ms. has instead: piled them up . He gave it to his sister holy Inana for her chair. He gave it to her for her bed. As for himself, from its roots, he manufactured his ball (?) and, from its branches, he manufactured his mallet (?).
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	151-165	He played with the ball (?) in the broad square, never wanting to stop playing it, and he praised himself in the broad square, never wanting to stop praising himself.  mss. from Urim add: The young men of his city were playing with the ball (?).  For (?) him who made the team of the widows' children XX, they lamented: O my neck! O my hips! For those that had a mother, the mother brought bread for her son; for those that had a sister, the sister poured water for her brother. As the evening came, he marked the spot where the ball (?) had been placed, and he picked up his ball (?) from in front of him and took it home. But early in the morning as he XX the place marked, the widows' accusation and the young girls' complaint caused his ball (?) and his mallet (?) to fall down to the bottom of the nether world.  1 ms. adds: He could not reach them by XX.  He tried with his hand but could not  reach  1 ms. has instead: touch  them, tried with his foot but could not  reach  1 ms. has instead: touch  them.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	166-175	At the gate of Ganzer, in front of the nether world, he sat down. Gilgameš wept, crying bitterly: O my ball (?)! O my mallet (?)! O my ball (?), I am still not satiated with its charms, the game with it has not yet palled for me! If only my ball (?) waited still in the carpenter's house for me! I would treat the carpenter's wife like my own mother -- if only it waited still there for me! I would treat the carpenter's child like my little sister -- if only it waited still there for me!  My ball (?) has fallen down to the nether world -- who will retrieve it for me?  1 ms. has instead: Who will retrieve my ball (?) from the nether world?   My mallet (?) has fallen down to Ganzer -- who will retrieve it for me?  1 ms. has instead: Who will retrieve my mallet (?) from Ganzer?
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	176-183	His servant Enkidu  answered  1 ms. has instead: said to   him  1 ms. has instead: Gilgameš : My king, you weep; why does your heart worry? Today I shall retrieve your ball (?) from the nether world, I shall retrieve your mallet (?) from Ganzer. Gilgameš answered Enkidu:  If today  1 ms. has instead: If  you are going to go down to the nether world, let me advise you! My instructions should be followed. Let me talk to you!  Pay attention to my words  1 ms. has instead: My words should be followed !
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	184-198	You should not put on your clean garments: they would recognise immediately that you are alien. You should not anoint yourself with fine oil from a bowl: they would surround you at  its  1 ms. has instead: your  scent. You should not hurl throw-sticks in the nether world: those struck down by the throw-sticks would surround you. You should not not hold a cornel-wood stick in your hand: the spirits would feel insulted by you. You should not put sandals on your feet. You should not shout in the nether world. You should not kiss your beloved wife. You should not hit your wife even if you are annoyed with her. You should not kiss your beloved child. You should not hit your son even if you are annoyed with him. The outcry aroused would detain you in the nether world.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	199-204	She who lies there, she who lies there, Ninazu's mother who lies there -- her pure shoulders are not covered with a garment, and no linen is spread over her pure breast. She has fingers like a pickaxe, she plucks her hair out like leeks.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	205-220	Enkidu, however, did not heed not his master's words. He put on his clean garments and they recognised that he was alien. He anointed himself with fine oil from a bowl and they surrounded him at its scent. He hurled throw-sticks in the nether world and those struck down by the throw-sticks surrounded him. He held a cornel-wood stick in his hand and the spirits felt insulted by him. He put sandals on his feet. He caused irritation in the nether world. He kissed his beloved wife and hit his wife when he was annoyed with her. He kissed his beloved child and hit his son when he was annoyed with him. He aroused an outcry and was detained in the nether world.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	221-229	The warrior Gilgameš, son of Ninsumun, directed his steps on his own to E-kur, the temple of Enlil. He cried before Enlil: Father Enlil, my ball (?) fell down into the nether world, my mallet (?) fell down into Ganzer. Enkidu went down to retrieve them but the nether world has seized him. Namtar did not seize him, the Asag did not seize him; but the nether world has seized him. The udug demon of Nergal, who spares nobody, did not seize him, but the nether world has seized him. He did not fall in battle on the field of manhood, but the nether world has seized him. Father Enlil did not stand by him in the matter, so he went to Eridug.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	230-237	In Eridug he directed his steps on his own to the temple of Enki. He cried before Enki: Father Enki, my ball (?) fell down into the nether world, my mallet (?) fell down into Ganzer. Enkidu went down to retrieve them but the nether world has seized him. Namtar did not seize him, the Asag did not seize him; but the nether world has seized him. The udug demon of Nergal, who spares nobody, did not seize him, but the nether world has seized him. He did not fall in battle on the field of manhood, but the nether world has seized him. Father Enki stood by him in this matter.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	238-242	He said to the young warrior Utu, the son born by Ningal: Open a hole in the nether world immediately, and then bring up his servant from the nether world! He opened a hole in the nether world and brought up his servant with his breeze (?) from the nether world.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	243-253	They hugged and kissed. They wearied each other with questions: Did you see the order of the nether world? -- If only you would tell me, my friend, if only you would tell me! If I tell you the order of the nether world, sit down and weep! I shall sit down and weep! XX, which your heart rejoiced to touch, is XX, worms infest it like an old garment (?); like XX of (?) a crevice, it is full of dust. Alas! he said and sat down in the dust.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	254-267	Did you see him who had one son? I saw him. How does he fare? He weeps bitterly at the wooden peg which was driven into his wall. Did you see him who had two sons? I saw him. How does he fare? He sits on a couple of bricks, eating bread. Did you see him who had three sons? I saw him. How does he fare? He drinks water from a saddle waterskin. Did you see him who had four sons? I saw him. How does he fare? His heart rejoices like a man who has four asses to yoke. Did you see him who had five sons? I saw him. How does he fare? Like a good scribe he is indefatigable, he enters the palace easily. Did you see him who had six sons? I saw him. How does he fare? He is a cheerful as a ploughman. Did you see him who had seven sons? I saw him. How does he fare? As a companion of the gods, he sits on a throne and listens to judgments.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	268-285	Did you see the palace eunuch? I saw him. How does he fare? Like a useless alala stick he is propped in a corner. Did you see the woman who never gave birth? I saw her. How does she fare? Like a XX pot, she is thrown away violently, she gives no man joy. Did you see the young man who never undressed his wife? I saw him. How does he fare? You finish a rope, and he weeps over the rope. Did you see the young woman who never undressed her husband? I saw her. How does she fare? You finish a reed mat, and she weeps over the reed mat. Did you see him who had no heir? I saw him. How does he fare? Like him who XX bricks (?), he eats bread. XX? I saw him. How does he fare?
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	A	286-303	Did you see XX? His food is set apart, his water is set apart, he eats the food offered (?) to him, he drinks the water offered (?) to him.  1 ms. adds: Did you see him who was eaten by a lion? He cries bitterly O my hands! O my legs! Did you see him who fell down from the roof? They cannot XX his bones.  Did you see the leprous man? He twitches like an ox as the worms eat at him. Did you see him who fell in battle? I saw him. How does he fare? His father and mother are not there to hold his head, and his wife weeps. Did you see the spirit of him who has no funerary offerings? I saw him. How does he fare? He eats the scraps and the crumbs XX tossed out in the street. Did you see him hit by a ship's board  1 ms. adds: when diving (?) ? How does he fare? Alas, my mother! the man cries to her, as he pulls out the ship's board XX, he XX cross beam XX crumbs. Did you see my little stillborn children who never knew existence? I saw them. How do they fare? They play at a table of gold and silver, laden with honey and ghee. Did you see him who died XX? I saw him. How does he fare? He lies on a bed of the gods. Did you see him who was set on fire? I did not see him. His spirit is not about. His smoke went up to the sky.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 58	1-7	Did you see him who fell down from the roof? I saw him. How does he fare? They cannot XX his bones. Did you see him who was struck in (?) a flood-storm of (?) Iškur? I saw him. How does he fare? He twitches like an ox as the worms eat at him. Did you see the leprous man? I saw him. How does he fare? His food is set apart, his water is set apart, he eats the food offered (?) to him, he drinks the water offered (?) to him. He lives outside the city.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 58	8-19	Did you see him who had no respect for the word of his mother and father? I saw him. How does he fare? O my body! O my limbs! he never ceases to cry. Did you see him who was reached by the curse of his mother and father? I saw him. How does he fare? He is deprived of an heir. His spirit roams about. Did you see him who XX the name of his god? I saw him. How does he fare? His spirit XX. Did you see the spirit of him who has no funerary offerings? I saw him. How does he fare? He eats the scraps and the crumbs XX tossed out in the street. Did you see my little stillborn children who never knew existence?I saw them. How do they fare? They play at a table of gold and silver, laden with honey and ghee. Did you see him who was set on fire? I did not see him. His smoke went up to the sky. His spirit does not live in the underworld.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 58	20-28	Did you see him who lied to the gods while swearing an oath? I saw him. How does he fare? He drinks XX which has been drunk XX the libation place at the entrance (?) to the nether world. Did you see the citizen of Ŋirsu who refused (?) water to his father and his mother? I saw him. How does he fare? In front of each of them are a thousand Martu, and his spirit can neither XX nor XX. The Martu at the libation place at the entrance (?) to the nether world XX. Did you see the citizens of Sumer and Akkad? I saw them. How do they fare? They drink the water of the XX place, muddy water. Did you see where my father and my mother live? I saw them. How do they fare? Both of them drink the water of the XX place, muddy water.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 60	1-10	They returned to Unug, they returned to their city. He entered outfitted with tools and armaments, with an axe and a spear, and deposited them in his palace happily. Looking at the statue, the young men and women of Unug and the old men (?) and women of Kulaba rejoiced. As Utu came forth from his bedchamber, Gilgameš (?) raised his head and told them (?): My father and my mother, drink clean water! Midday had hardly passed when they touched the statue's (?) crown.
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 60	11-16	Gilgameš threw himself down at the place of mourning, he threw himself down for nine days at the place of mourning. The young men and women of Unug and the old men (?) and women of Kulaba wept. As soon as he had said that, he repulsed the citizen of Ŋirsu. My father and my mother, drink clean water!
t.1.8.1.4	Gilgameš Enkidu and the nether world	UET 6 60	17	Warrior Gilgameš, son of Ninsumun, sweet is your praise!
