id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		1-4	His heart was full of tears as he went out into the countryside. The lad's heart was full of tears as he went out into the countryside. Dumuzid's heart was full of tears as he went out into the countryside. He carried with him his  1 ms. adds: shepherd's  stick on his shoulder, sobbing all the time:
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		5-14	Grieve, grieve, O countryside, grieve! O countryside, grieve! O marshes, cry out! O XX crabs of the river, grieve! O frogs of the river, cry out! My mother will call to me, my mother, my Durtur, will call to me, my mother will call to me for five things, my mother will call to me for 10 things: if she does not know the day when I am dead, you, O countryside, can inform my mother who bore me. Like my little sister may you weep for me.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		15-18	In ancient times he lay down, in ancient times he lay down, in ancient times the shepherd lay down. When in ancient times the shepherd lay down, he lay down to dream. He woke up -- it was a dream! He shivered -- it was sleep! He rubbed his eyes, he was terrified.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		19-24	Bring, bring, bring my sister! Bring my Ŋeštin-ana, bring my sister! Bring my scribe proficient in tablets, bring my sister! Bring my singer expert in songs, bring my singer! Bring my perspicacious girl, bring my sister! Bring my wise woman who knows the meanings of dreams, bring my sister! I will relate the dream to her.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		25-39	A dream, my sister! A dream! In my dream, rushes were rising up for me, rushes kept growing for me; a single reed was shaking its head at me; twin reeds -- one was being separated from me. Tall trees in the forest were rising up together over me. Water was poured over my holy  coals  1 ms. has instead: brazier  for me, the cover of my holy churn was removed, my holy drinking cup was torn down from the peg where it hung, my shepherd's stick disappeared from me. An owl (?) took a lamb from the sheep house, a falcon caught a sparrow on the reed fence, my male goats were dragging their dark beards in the dust for me, my rams were scratching the earth with their thick legs for me. The churns were lying on their sides, no milk was being poured, the drinking cups were lying on their sides, Dumuzid was dead, the sheepfold was haunted.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		41-55	Ŋeštin-ana answered Dumuzid: My brother, your dream is not favourable, don't tell me any more of it! Dumuzid, your dream is not favourable, don't tell me any more of it! The rushes rising up for you, which kept growing for you, are bandits rising against you from their ambush. The single reed shaking its head at you is your mother who bore you, shaking her head for you. The twin reeds of which one was being separated from you is you and I -- one will be separated from you. The tall trees in the forest rising up together over you are the evil men catching you within the walls. That water was poured over your holy coals means the sheepfold will become a house of silence. That the cover of your holy churn was removed for you means the evil man will bring it inside in his hands.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		56-69	Your holy drinking cup torn down from the peg where it hung is you falling off the lap of the mother who bore you. That your shepherd's stick disappeared from you means the demons  will set fire to it  1 ms. has instead: will smash it . The owl (?) taking a lamb from the sheep house  is the evil man who will hit you on the cheek  1 ms. has instead: is the evil man who will destroy the sheep house . The falcon catching a sparrow on the reed fence is the big demon coming  down  1 ms. has instead: out  from the sheep house. That the churns were lying on their sides, no milk was being poured, the drinking cups were lying on their sides, that Dumuzid was dead, and the sheepfold haunted, means your hands will be bound in handcuffs, your arms will be bound in fetters. That your male goats were dragging their dark beards in the dust for you means that my hair will whirl around in the air like a hurricane for you. That your rams were scratching the earth with their thick legs for you means that I shall lacerate my cheeks with my fingernails for you as if with a boxwood needle.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		70-82	Hardly had she spoken these words when he said, Sister, go up onto the mound, sister, go up onto the mound! Sister, when you go up onto the mound, do not go up onto the mound like an ordinary person, but lacerate  your heart  1 ms. has instead: your hair  and your liver, lacerate your clothes and your crotch, sister, and then go up onto the mound! Sister, when you go up onto the mound, look out from the mound! The evil XX, hated by men, XX a river barge! They hold in their hands the wood to bind the hands, they are identified (?) from the wood to bind the neck -- no man knows how to undo it!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		83-86	Ama-ŋeštin-ana went up onto the mound and looked around, Ŋeštin-ana craned her neck. Her girl friend Ŋeštin-dudu advised her: The big men who bind the neck are already coming for him, they are XX coming for him!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		87-90	My adviser and girl friend! Are they coming? Yes, I will point out to you those who bind the neck! My brother, your demons are coming for you! Duck down your head in the grass! Dumuzid, your demons are coming for you! Duck down your head in the grass!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		91-94	My sister, I will duck down my head in the grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will duck down my head in the short grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will duck down my head in the tall grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will drop down into the ditches of Arali! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		95-97	If I reveal your whereabouts to them, may your dog devour me! The black dog, your shepherd dog, the noble dog, your lordly dog, may your dog devour me!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		98-102	She remembered (?): XX give your friend instructions about it! O my brother, may you never have a friend or comrade like XX! After the demons (?) have searched for you, XX, if he tells you XX.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		103-106	My friend, I will duck down my head in the grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will duck down my head in the short grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will duck down my head in the tall grass! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them! I will drop down into the ditches of Arali! Don't reveal my whereabouts to them!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		107-109	If I reveal your whereabouts to them, may your dog devour me! The black dog, your shepherd dog, the noble dog, your lordly dog, may your dog devour me!
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		110-138	Those who come for the king are a motley crew, who know not food, who know not drink, who eat no sprinkled flour, who drink no poured water, who accept no pleasant gifts, who do not enjoy a wife's embraces, who never kiss dear little children, who never chew sharp-tasting garlic, who eat no fish, who eat no leeks. There were two men of Adab who came for the king. They were thistles in dried-up waters, they were thorns in stinking waters -- 'his hand was on the table, his tongue was in the palace' Alludes to a proverb. Then there were two men of Akšak who came for the king, with XX carried on their shoulders. Then there were two men of Unug who came for the king. With head-smashing clubs tied to their waists, there were two men of Urim who came for the king. With  shining  1 ms. has instead: clean  clothes on the quayside, there were two men of Nibru who came for the king. Crying Man run after man!, they came to the sheepfold and cow-pen. They caught Ŋeštin-ana at the sheepfold and cow-pen. They offered a river of water, but she wouldn't accept it. They offered her a field of grain, but she wouldn't accept it. The little demon spoke to the big demon, the wise demon, the lively demon, and the big demon who was between them, wise like XX destroying a XX, like XX barring a XX, they spoke:
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		139-150	Who since the most ancient times has ever known a sister reveal a brother's whereabouts? Come! Let us go to his friend! Then they offered his friend a river of water, and he accepted it. They offered him a field of grain, and he accepted it. My friend ducked down his head in the grass, but I don't know his whereabouts  1 ms. adds: Dumuzid ducked down his head in the grass, but I don't know his whereabouts . They looked for Dumuzid's head in the grass, but they couldn't find him. He ducked down his head in the short grass, but I don't know his whereabouts. They looked for Dumuzid's head in the short grass, but they couldn't find him. He ducked down his head in the tall grass, but I don't know his whereabouts. They looked for Dumuzid's head in the tall grass, but they couldn't find him. He has dropped down into the ditches of Arali, but I don't know his whereabouts.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		151-155	They caught Dumuzid in the ditches of Arali. Dumuzid began to weep and was tear-stricken: In the city my sister saved my life, my friend caused my death. If a sister leaves (?) a child in the street, someone should kiss it. But if a friend leaves (?) a child in the street, no one should kiss it.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		156-164	The men surrounded him and drained the standing waters. They twisted a cord for him, they knotted a net for him. They wove a reed hawser for him, they cut sticks for him. The one in front of him threw missiles at him, the one behind him XX one cubit. His hands were bound in handcuffs, his arms were bound in fetters. The lad raised his hands heavenward to Utu:
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		165-173	Utu, you are my brother-in-law, I am your sister's husband! I am he who carries food to E-ana, I am he who brought the wedding gifts to Unug, I am he who kisses the holy lips, I am he who dances on the holy knees, the knees of Inana. Please change my hands into gazelle hands, change my feet into gazelle feet, so I can evade my demons. Let me escape with my life to Ku-bireš-dildareš.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		174-180	Utu accepted his tears  1 ms. adds: as a gift . Like a merciful man he showed him mercy. He changed his hands into gazelle hands, he changed his feet into gazelle feet, and so he evaded the demons, and escaped with his life to Ku-bireš-dildareš. The demons searched for him, but didn't find him.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		181-191	Come, let us go to Ku-bireš.  1 ms. adds: XX like a net XX.  They caught Dumuzid at Ku-bireš. The men surrounded him and drained the standing waters. They twisted a cord for him, they knotted a net for him. They wove a reed hawser for him, they cut sticks for him, the one in front of him threw missiles at him, the one behind him XX. His hands were bound in handcuffs, his arms were bound in fetters. The lad raised his hands heavenward to Utu:
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		192-199	Utu, you are my brother-in-law, I am your sister's husband! I am he who carries food to E-ana, I am he who brought the wedding gifts to Unug, I am he who kisses the holy lips, I am he who dances on the holy knees, the knees of Inana. Please change my hands into  gazelle  1 ms. has instead: snake  hands, change my feet into  gazelle  1 ms. has instead: snake  feet, so I can escape to the house of Old Woman Belili.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		200-205	Utu accepted his tears. He changed his hands into  gazelle  1 ms. has instead: snake  hands, he changed his feet into  gazelle   1 ms. has instead: snake  feet, so he evaded the demons and escaped with his life to the house of Old Woman Belili. He approached the house of Old Woman Belili.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		206-208	Old woman! I am not just a man, I am the husband of a goddess! Would you pour water -- please -- so I can drink water. Would you sprinkle flour -- please -- so I can eat flour.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		209-212	She poured water, and she sprinkled flour, and he sat down inside the house. The old woman left the house. When the old woman left the house, the demons saw her.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		213-226	Unless the old woman is aware of Dumuzid's whereabouts, she is indeed looking frightened! She is indeed screaming in a frightened way! Come, let us go to the house of Old Woman Belili! They caught Dumuzid at the house of Old Woman Belili. The men surrounded him and drained the standing waters. They twisted a cord for him, they knotted a net for him. They wove a reed hawser for him, they cut sticks for him, the one in front of him threw missiles at him, the one behind him XX. His hands were bound in handcuffs, his arms were bound in fetters. The lad raised his hands heavenward to Utu:
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		227-234	Utu, you are my brother-in-law, I am your sister's husband! I am he who carries food to E-ana, I am he who brought the wedding gifts to Unug, I am he who kisses the holy lips, I am he who dances on the holy knees, the knees of Inana. Please change my hands into gazelle hands, change my feet into gazelle feet, so I can escape to the holy sheepfold, my sister's sheepfold.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		235-244	Utu accepted his tears. He changed his hands into  gazelle  1 ms. has instead: snake  hands, he changed his feet into  gazelle  1 ms. has instead: snake  feet, so he evaded the demons, and escaped with his life to the holy sheepfold, his sister's sheepfold. He approached the holy sheepfold, his sister's sheepfold. Ŋeštin-ana cried toward heaven, cried toward earth. Her cries covered the horizon completely like a cloth, they were spread out like linen. She lacerated her eyes, she lacerated her face, she lacerated her ears in public; in private she lacerated her buttocks.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		245-255	My brother, I will go round in the streets XX. (The demons said:) Unless Ŋeštin-ana is aware of Dumuzid's whereabouts, she is indeed looking frightened! She is indeed screaming in a frightened way! Come, let us go to the sheepfold and cow-pen! When the first demon entered the sheepfold and cow-pen,  he set fire to the bolt  1 ms. has instead: he shouted XX . When the second entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, he set fire to the shepherd's stick. When the third entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, he removed the cover of the holy churn.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		256-260	When the fourth entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, he tore down the drinking cup from the peg where it hung. When the fifth entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, the churns lay on their sides, no milk was poured, the drinking cups lay on their sides, Dumuzid was dead, the sheepfold was haunted.  instead of lines 256-260, 1 ms. has: When the fourth entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, he poured water on my holy brazier. When the fifth demon entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, he tore down my holy drinking cup from the peg where it hung. When the sixth demon entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, the churns lay on their sides, and no milk was poured. When the seventh demon entered the sheepfold and cow-pen, the drinking cups lay on their sides, Dumuzid was dead, the sheepfold was haunted.
t.1.4.3	Dumuzid's dream		261-999	A šir-kalkal for the dead Dumuzid.
