id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		1-28	XX my XX. XX my lacerated eyes XX. XX my lacerated nose XX. XX my beaten XX. XX my hasty XX. XX my XX

XX my XX. XX my loaded waggon XX. XX my XX. XX my XX. XX who is cheerful XX. XX who laments XX. XX the door of the gate of the nether world XX. My brother, XX the door of the gate XX

XX ladyship (?) XX. On the mighty river, XX. XX its fields, a waterskin XX. XX in lamenting XX. XX my XX hated XX. My brother, your feet hurt, your feet XX the road. My brother, wherever you go I will hasten with you. Dumuzid, wherever you go I will hasten with you. XX I will hasten with you. I will hasten with you. XX going (?) as your slavegirl, XX of the lord, I XX. XX of the lord XX XX going (?) as your slavegirl, XX of the lord, I XX.
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		29-34	My brother -- because of him I cannot rejoice. My brother XX. Dumuzid, my brother -- because of him I cannot rejoice, XX. XX in front of him XX. XX he who bound his arms went in front of him. XX he who fettered his hands went behind him. XX they who beat him went alongside him.
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		35-53	XX then the elder sister spoke to him. XX she replied to him in his distress XX: XX those men will seize him. XX let them bring XX. XX they will rip out XX.
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		54-68	

XX you also XX. XX you also XX. XX they paid (?) attention XX. XX went along the broad road. XX went along the broad road. XX the demon confronted her. XX the demon confronted her. XX the demon confronted her. XX met her XX, the demon confronted her. XX, he tried to control (?) her. XX, as she was tearing out her hair, he tried to control (?) her. XX as she was lacerating her eyes, as she was lacerating her nose, he tried to control (?) her. XX as she XX excessively, he tried to control (?) her. XX as she spoke XX beauty XX lips, he tried to control (?) her:
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		69-72	XX you, maiden, who are in a similar state (?) to the lord, are you his sister? XX who are in a similar state (?) to Dumuzid, are you his sister? XX are you the lad's younger sister? Are you his sister? XX are you Dumuzid's younger sister? Are you his sister?
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		73-80	Cut XX with my XX; I am his sister. Cut with Dumuzid; I am his sister. I am the lad's younger sister, I am his sister. I am Dumuzid's younger sister, I am his sister. Now, let me too be in a similar state (?) XX to him; I am his sister. Let me too be in a similar state (?) XX to him; I am his sister. If I had a cord XX on my hands, my hands would not hurt. If I had a wine jar on my shoulder, my shoulder would not hurt.
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		81-85	She returned to the side of his XX and muddied (?) the water. She, Ŋeštin-ana, poured water into a crevice in the ground for him. The maiden, equipped with XX, agitated (?) the water. She agitated (?) the water, the water for the brother, XX. She agitated (?) the water, and returned it to the river:
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		86-88	Return to your river! Return to your river! Return to your river! O water which my brother cannot drink, return to your river! O water which Dumuzid cannot drink, O water, return to your river!
t.1.4.1.3	Dumuzid and his sisters		89-108	She heaped up the XX of the river, and muddied the Euphrates: XX my brother is no longer alive. He will cut XX from XX. XX Dumuzid is no longer alive. He will cut XX from XX. XX is no longer alive, he is no longer alive. He will definitely not return. My XX is no longer alive. My XX is no longer alive. My XX is no longer alive. XX is no longer alive. XX is no longer alive. XX is no longer alive. XX Dumuzid is no longer alive. He will definitely not return. I cannot rejoice over XX when you were born. I cannot rejoice over XX when you were born. I cannot rejoice over XX when you were born. XX was born. XX was born. XX I, Ŋeštin, XX. XX to Dumuzid. XX I, Ŋeštin, XX.
