id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		1-4	Pure are the cities -- and you are the ones to whom they are allotted. Pure is Dilmun land. Pure is Sumer -- and you are the ones to whom it is allotted. Pure is Dilmun land. Pure is Dilmun land. Virginal is Dilmun land. Virginal is Dilmun land. Pristine is Dilmun land.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		5-10	He laid her down all alone in Dilmun, and the place where Enki had lain down with his spouse, that place was still virginal, that place was still pristine. He laid her down all alone in Dilmun, and the place where Enki had lain down with Ninsikila, that place was virginal, that place was pristine.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		11-16	In Dilmun the raven was not yet cawing, the partridge not cackling. The lion did not slay, the wolf was not carrying off lambs, the dog had not been taught to make kids curl up, the pig had not learned that grain was to be eaten.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		17-19	When a widow has spread malt on the roof, the birds did not yet eat that malt up there. The pigeon then did not tuck the head under its wing.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		20-26	No eye-diseases said there: I am the eye disease. No headache said there: I am the headache. No old woman belonging to it said there: I am an old woman. No old man belonging to it said there: I am an old man. No maiden in her unwashed state XX in the city. No man dredging a river said there: It is getting dark. No herald made the rounds in his border district.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		27-28	No singer sang an elulam there. No wailings were wailed in the city's outskirts there.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		29-32	Ninsikila said to her father Enki: You have given a city. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me? You have given a city, Dilmun. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me? You have given XX. You have given a city. What avails me your giving?
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		33-39	You have given XX, a city that has no river quay. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me?

A city that has no fields, glebe or furrow

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		40-43	(Enki answered Ninsikila:) When Utu steps up into heaven, fresh waters shall run out of the ground for you from the standing vessels (?) on Ezen's (?) shore, from Nanna's radiant high temple, from the mouth of the waters running underground.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		44-49	May the waters rise up from it into your great basins. May your city drink water aplenty from them. May Dilmun drink water aplenty from them. May your pools of salt water become pools of fresh water. May your city become an emporium on the quay for the Land. May Dilmun become an emporium on the quay for the Land.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		49A-49P	May the land of Tukriš hand over to you gold from Harali, lapis lazuli and XX. May the land of Meluha load precious desirable cornelian, meš wood of Magan and the best abba wood into large ships for you. May the land of Marhaši yield you precious stones, topazes. May the land of Magan offer you strong, powerful copper, dolerite, u stone and šumin stone. May the Sea-land offer you its own ebony wood, XX of a king. May the 'Tent'-lands offer you fine multicoloured wools. May the land of Elam hand over to you choice wools, its tribute. May the manor of Urim, the royal throne dais, the city XX, load up into large ships for you sesame, august raiment, and fine cloth. May the wide sea yield you its wealth.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		49Q-49V	The city's dwellings are good dwellings. Dilmun's dwellings are good dwellings. Its grains are little grains, its dates are big dates, its harvests are triple XX, its wood is XX wood.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		50-54	At that moment, on that day, and under that sun, when Utu stepped up into heaven, from the standing vessels (?) on Ezen's (?) shore, from Nanna's radiant high temple, from the mouth of the waters running underground, fresh waters ran out of the ground for her.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		55-62	The waters rose up from it into her great basins. Her city drank water aplenty from them. Dilmun drank water aplenty from them. Her pools of salt water indeed became pools of fresh water. Her fields, glebe and furrows indeed produced grain for her. Her city indeed became an emporium on the quay for the Land. Dilmun indeed became an emporium on the quay for the Land. At that moment, on that day, and under that sun, so it indeed happened.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		63-68	All alone the wise one, toward Nintur, the country's mother, Enki, the wise one, toward Nintur, the country's mother, was digging his phallus into the dykes, plunging his phallus into the reedbeds. The august one pulled his phallus aside and cried out: No man take me in the marsh.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		69-74	Enki cried out: By the life's breath of heaven I adjure you. Lie down for me in the marsh, lie down for me in the marsh, that would be joyous. Enki distributed his semen destined for Damgalnuna. He poured semen into Ninhursaŋa's womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		75-87	But her one month was one day, but her two months were two days, but her three months were three days, but her four months were four days, but her five months were five days, but her six months were six days, but her seven months were seven days, but her eight months were eight days, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Nintur, mother of the country, like fine (?) oil, gave birth to Ninnisig.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		88-96	In turn Ninnisig went out to the riverbank. Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninnisig not to be kissed? His minister Isimud answered him: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninnisig not to be kissed? My master will sail, let me navigate. He will sail, let me navigate.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		97-107	First he put his feet in the boat, next he put them on dry land. He clasped her to the bosom, kissed her, Enki poured semen into the womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki. But her one month was one day, but her two months were two days, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Ninnisig, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, gave birth to Ninkura.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		108-116	In turn Ninkura went out to the riverbank. Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninkura not to kissed? His minister Isimud answered him: Kiss this nice youngster. Kiss this nice Ninkura. My master will sail, let me navigate. He will sail, let me navigate.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		117-126	First he put his feet in the boat, next he put them on dry land. He clasped her to the bosom, kissed her, Enki poured semen into the womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki. But her one month was one day, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Ninkura, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, gave birth to Uttu, the exalted (?) woman.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		126A-126K	Ninkura in turn gave birth to Ninimma. She brought the child up and made her flourish. Ninimma in turn went out to the riverbank. Enki was towing his boat along and was able to see up there, XX. He laid eyes on Ninimma on the riverbank and said to his minister Isimud: Have I ever kissed one like this nice youngster? Have I ever made love to one like nice Ninimma? His minister Isimud answered him: My master will sail, let me navigate. He will sail, let me navigate.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		126L-126Q	First he put his feet in the boat, next he put them on dry land. He clasped her to the bosom, lying in her crotch, made love to the youngster and kissed her. Enki poured semen into Ninimma's womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		126R-126CC	To the woman its one month was but its one day, its two months were but its two days, its three months were but its three days, its four months were but its four days, its five months were but its five days, its six months were but its six days, its seven months were but its seven days, its eight months were but its eight days, and at its nine days, in the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Ninimma, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, gave birth to Uttu, the exalted (?) woman.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		127-146	Nintur said to Uttu: Let me advise you, and may you take heed of my advice. Let me speak words to you and may you heed my words. From in the marsh one man is able to see up here, is able to see up here, he is; from in the marsh Enki is able to see up here, is able to see up here, he is. He will set eyes on you.

XX Uttu, the exalted (?) woman XX

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		147-151	(Uttu said:) Bring cucumbers in XX, bring apples with their stems sticking out (?), bring grapes in their clusters, and in the house you will indeed have hold of my halter, O Enki, you will indeed have hold of my halter.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		152-158	When he was filling with water a second time, he filled the dykes with water, he filled the canals with water, he filled the fallows with water. The gardener in his joy rose (?) from the dust and embraced him: Who are you who XX the garden?
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		159-166	Enki (said to) XX the gardener:
He brought him cucumbers in XX, brought him apples with their stems sticking out (?), brought him grapes in their clusters, filled his lap.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		167-177	Enki made his face attractive and took a staff in his hand. Enki came to a halt at Uttu's, knocked at her house (demanding): Open up, open up. (She asked): Who are you? (He answered:) I am a gardener. Let me give you cucumbers, apples, and grapes for your consent. Joyfully Uttu opened the house. Enki gave Uttu, the exalted (?) woman, cucumbers in XX, gave her apples with their stems sticking out (?), gave her grapes in their clusters. 
1 line not in the ms. from Nibru: He poured beer for her in the large ban measure.

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		178-185	Uttu, the exalted (?) woman, XX to the left for him, waved the hands for him. Enki aroused Uttu. He clasped her to the bosom, lying in her crotch, fondled her thighs, fondled her with the hand. He clasped her to the bosom, lying in her crotch, made love to the youngster and kissed her. Enki poured semen into Uttu's womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		186-189	Uttu, the beautiful woman, cried out: Woe, my thighs. She cried out: Woe, my body. Woe, my heart. Ninhursaŋa removed the semen from the thighs.

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		190-197	She grew the 'tree' plant, she grew the 'honey' plant, she grew the 'vegetable' plant, she grew the esparto grass (?), she grew the atutu plant, she grew the aštaltal plant, she grew the XX plant, she grew the amharu plant.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		198-201	Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: I have not determined the destiny of these plants. What is this one? What is that one?
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		202-210	His minister Isimud had the answer for him. My master, the 'tree' plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the 'honey' plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. My master, the 'vegetable' plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the alfalfa grass (?), he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		211-219	My master, the atutu plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the aštaltal plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. My master, the XX plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the amharu plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. Enki determined the destiny of the plants, had them know it in their hearts.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		220-227	Ninhursaŋa cursed the name Enki: Until his dying day, I will never look upon him with life-giving eye. The Anuna sat down in the dust. But a fox was able to speak to Enlil: If I bring Ninhursaŋa to you, what will be my reward? Enlil answered the fox: If you bring Ninhursaŋa to me, I shall erect two birch (?) trees for you in my city and you will be renowned.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		228-234	The fox first anointed his body, first shook out his fur (?), first put kohl on his eyes.

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		235-246	(The fox said to Ninhursaŋa:) I have been to Nibru, but Enlil XX. I have been to Urim, but Nanna XX. I have been to Larsam, but Utu XX. I have been to Unug, but Inana XX. I am seeking refuge with one who is XX.

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		247-253	Ninhursaŋa hastened to the temple. The Anuna slipped off her garment, made XX, determined its destiny and XX. Ninhursaŋa made Enki sit by her vagina. 
1 line not in the ms. from Nibru: She placed (?) her hands on XX. and XX. on its outside.

t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		254-263	(Ninhursaŋa asked:) My brother, what part of you hurts you? The top of my head (ugu-dili) hurts me. She gave birth to Ab-u out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? The locks of my hair (siki) hurt me. She gave birth to Ninsikila out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My nose (giri) hurts me. She gave birth to Ningiriutud out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My mouth (ka) hurts me. She gave birth to Ninkasi out of it.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		264-271	My brother, what part of you hurts you? My throat (zi) hurts me. She gave birth to Nazi out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My arm (a) hurts me. She gave birth to Azimua out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My ribs (ti) hurt me. She gave birth to Ninti out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My sides (zag) hurt me. She gave birth to Ensag out of it.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		272-280	(She said:) For the little ones to whom I have given birth may rewards not be lacking. Ab-u shall become king of the grasses, Ninsikila shall become lord of Magan, Ningiriutud shall marry Ninazu, Ninkasi shall be what satisfies the heart, Nazi shall marry Nindara, Azimua shall marry Ninŋišzida, Ninti shall become the lady of the month, and Ensag shall become lord of Dilmun.
t.1.1.1	Enki and Ninhursaŋa		281	Praise be to Father Enki.
