id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		1-3	Now the lord once decided to set off for the mountain where the man lives; Lord Gilgameš decided to set off for the mountain where the man lives. He spoke to his slave Enkidu:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		4-7	Enkidu, since a man cannot pass beyond the final end of life, I want to set off into the mountains, to establish my renown there. Where renown can be established there, I will establish my renown; and where no renown can be established there, I shall establish the renown of the gods.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		8-12	His slave Enkidu answered him: My lord, if today you are going to set off into the mountains, Utu should know about it from us.  1 ms. adds: If you are going to to set off into the Mountains of Cedar-felling, Utu should know about it from us.  Utu, youthful Utu, should know about it from us. A decision that concerns the mountains is Utu's business. A decision that concerns the Mountains of Cedar-felling is the business of youthful Utu. Utu should know about it from us.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		13-16	Gilgameš  prepared  2 mss. have instead: took hold of  a white kid.  He clasped a brown kid, a sacrificial animal, close to his breast.  1 ms. has instead: He XX a brown kid.  In his hand he held a holy staff before his nose, as he addressed Utu of heaven:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		17-18	Utu, I am going to set off into the mountains! May you be my helper! I am going to set off into the Mountains of Cedar-felling! May you be my helper!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		19-20	From heaven Utu replied to him: Young man, you are noble already in your own right -- but what would you want with the mountains?
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		21-33	Utu, I have something to say to you -- a word in your ear! I greet you -- please pay attention! In my city people are dying, and hearts are full of distress. People are lost -- that fills me with  1 ms. adds: wretched  dismay. I craned my neck over the city wall: corpses in the water make the river almost overflow. That is what I see. That will happen to me too -- that is the way things go. No one is tall enough to reach heaven; no one can reach wide enough to stretch over the mountains. Since a man cannot pass beyond the final end of life, I want to set off into the mountains, to establish my renown there. Where renown can be established there, I will establish my renown; and where no renown can be established there, I shall establish the renown of the gods.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		34-47	Utu accepted his tears as a fitting gift. As befits a compassionate person, he turned to him full of compassion: Now there are seven warriors, sons of a single mother. The first, their eldest brother, has lion's paws and eagle's talons. The second is a XX snake, XX. The third is a dragon snake, XX. The fourth blazes with fire XX. The fifth is a XX snake, XX. The sixth 1 ms. adds:, a shackle that XX the rebel lands in the hills,  beats at the flanks of the mountains  like a battering flood  1 ms. has instead:, floodwater that destroys all . The seventh XX flashes like lightning, and no one can deflect  it  1 ms. has instead: its power . 1 ms. adds 4 lines:   another ms. adds instead 6 lines:  XX kingship XX. Nisaba has bestowed XX on you in addition. They XX, and know the routes on earth. They will help you find the XX of the way.  They should guide you to the place in the mountains where the boats have to be pulled from the water!  The warrior, youthful Utu, gave these seven to Gilgameš.  3 mss. have instead the line, placed after line 43: These seven the warrior, youthful Utu, gave to Lord Gilgameš.  The feller of cedars was filled with joy; Lord Gilgameš was filled with joy.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		48-51	In his city he had the horn sounded for single men; similarly for two together he made them call out. Let him who has a household go to his household! Let him who has a mother go to his mother! Let bachelor males, types like me,  4 mss. add: -- fifty of them --  join me at my side!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		52-60	Whoever had a household went to his household. Whoever had a mother went to his mother. Bachelor males, types like him -- there were fifty -- joined him at his side. He made his way to the blacksmith's, and had them cast XX weapons and axes, the strength of warriors. Then he made his way to the deeply shaded plantations, where he had ebony trees felled, and halub trees, apricot trees, and box trees. He XX to his fellow-citizens who were going with him.  1 ms. adds: Warriors, sons of a single mother XX.  The first, their eldest brother, has lion's paws and eagle's claws. They will guide him to the place in the mountains where the boats have to be pulled from the water.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		61	He crossed the first mountain range,  but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there  1 ms. has instead: the cedars did not catch his attention .  the same ms. adds: He crossed the second mountain range, but the cedars did not catch his attention. He crossed the third mountain range, but the cedars did not catch his attention. He crossed the fourth mountain range, but the cedars did not catch his attention. He crossed the fifth mountain range, but the cedars did not catch his attention. He crossed the sixth mountain range, but the cedars did not catch his attention.  another ms. adds instead:  He crossed the third mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the fourth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the fifth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the sixth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		62-67	When he had crossed the seventh mountain range, there his intuition led him to find the cedars. He did not need to ask, nor did he have to search any further. Lord Gilgameš began to chop at the cedars,   while Enkidu lopped off their branches, XX to Gilgameš.  1 ms. has instead: while Enkidu XX their branches, and his fellow-citizens XX.  1 ms. adds: to XX, Enkidu XX.  XX stacked them in piles. 1 ms. adds: Huwawa XX.  He loosed his terrrors against XX.  instead of lines 65-67, 1 ms. has: while Enkidu cut up the timbers, and the widows' sons who had come with him heaped them up in piles. Since, because of the XX, Huwawa had been scared in his lair by Gilgameš, he began to radiate his terrors XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		68-75	Gilgameš XX was overcome by sleep, and it affected Enkidu XX as a powerful longing. His fellow-citizens who had come with him flailed around at his feet like puppies. Enkidu awoke from his dream, shuddering from his sleep. He rubbed his eyes; there was eery silence everywhere. He touched Gilgameš, but could not rouse him. He spoke to him, but he did not reply.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		76-84	You who have gone to sleep, you who have gone to sleep! Gilgameš, young lord of Kulaba, how long will you sleep for? The mountains are becoming indistinct as the shadows fall across them; the evening twilight lies over them. Proud Utu has already gone to the bosom of his mother Ningal. Gilgameš, how long will you sleep for? The sons of your city who came with you should not have to wait at the foot of the hills. Their own mothers should not have to twine string in the square of your city.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		85-89	He thrust that into his right ear; he covered him with his aggressive words as if with a cloth  1 ms. adds:, laid them out like linen . He  gathered  3 mss. have instead: picked up  in his hand a cloth with thirty shekels of oil on it and  smothered  1 ms. has instead: rubbed  it over Gilgameš's chest. Then Gilgameš stood up like a bull on the great earth. Bending his neck downwards, he yelled at him:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		90-91	By the life of my own mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! Am I to become again as if I were slumbering still on the lap of my own mother Ninsumun?
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		92-95	A second time he spoke to him: By the life of my own mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! Until I discover whether that person was a human or a god, I shall not direct back to the city my steps which I have directed to the mountains.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		96-97	The slave, trying to ameliorate the situation, trying to make life appear more attractive, answered his master:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		98-106	My master, you have not yet really seen that person, he should not vex you. -- But he vexes me -- me, who have seen him before. His pugnacious mouth is a dragon's maw; his face is a lion's grimace. His chest is like a raging flood; no one  dare approach  1 ms. has instead: can escape from  his brow, which devours the reedbeds.  2 mss. adds 1 line: A man-eating lion, he never wipes away the blood from his slaver.  1 ms. adds instead 5 lines:  XX a lion eating a corpse, he never wipes away the blood    Travel on, my master, up into the mountains! -- but I shall travel back to the city. If I say to your mother about you He is alive!, she will laugh. But afterwards I shall say to her about you He is dead!, and she will certainly weep  over you  1 ms. has instead: bitterly . 1 ms. adds: XX replied to XX:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		107-116	Look, Enkidu, two people together will not perish! A grappling-pole does not sink! No one can cut through a three-ply cloth! Water cannot wash someone away from a wall! Fire in a reed house cannot be extinguished! You help me, and I will help you -- what can anyone do against us then? When it sank, when it sank, when the Magan boat sank, when the magilum barge sank, then at least the life-saving grappling-pole of the boat  was rescued  1 ms. has instead: was not allowed to sink ! Come on, let's get after him and get a sight of him!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		117-119	If we go after him, there will be terror! There will be terror. Turn back! There will be blood! There wil be blood! Turn back!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		120	Whatever you may think -- come on, let's get after him!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		121-125	Before a man can approach within even sixty times six yards, Huwawa has already reached his house among the cedars. When he looks at someone, it is the look of death. When he shakes his head at someone, it is a gesture full of reproach.  1 ms. adds: When he speaks to someone, he should not prolong his words:  You may still be a young man, but you will never again return to the city of your mother who bore you!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		126-129	Fear and terror spread through  his  1 ms. has instead: Gilgameš's  sinews and his feet. He could not move (?) his feet on the ground; the big toenails of his feet stuck XX to the path (?). At his side XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		130-135	(Huwawa addressed Gilgameš:) So come on now, you heroic bearer of a sceptre of wide-ranging power! Noble glory of the gods, angry bull standing ready for a fight! Your mother knew well how to bear sons, and your nurse knew well how to nourish children on the breast! Don't be afraid, rest your hand on the ground!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		136-139	Gilgameš rested his hand on the ground, and addressed Huwawa: By the life of my own mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought you En-me-barage-si, my big sister, to be your wife in the mountains.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		140-144	And again he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought you Ma-tur, my little sister, to be your concubine in the mountains. Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		145-148	Then Huwawa handed over to him his first terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		148A-148K	Several mss. preserve a more elaborate, but repetitive, narrative built on the pattern of lines 145-148. Some preserve the repetitions in an extremely abbreviated form. No ms. known to be from Nibru preserves the additional lines. One ms. of unknown origin adds at least 53 lines (and another fragmentary ms. of unknown origin gives an abbreviated version of these, always replacing 'terror' by 'aura'): And again he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought to the mountains for you XX. Couldn't I get close to you and your family? Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman! Then Huwawa handed over to him his second terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		148L-148V	And a third time he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought to the mountains for you some eša flour -- the food of the gods! -- and a waterskin of cool water. Couldn't I get close to you and your family? Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman! Then Huwawa handed over to him his third terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		148W-148FF	And a fourth time he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought to for you some big shoes for big feet. Couldn't I get close to you and your family? Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman! Then Huwawa handed over to him his fourth terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		148GG-148PP	And a fifth time he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought to the mountains for you some tiny shoes for your tiny feet. Couldn't I get close to you and your family? Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman! Then Huwawa handed over to him his fifth terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		148QQ-148AAA	And a sixth time he addressed him: By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! No one really knows where in the mountains you live; they would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, I have brought you rock-crystal, nir stone and lapis lazuli -- from the mountains. Couldn't I get close to you and your family? Just hand over your terrors to me! I want to become your kinsman! Then Huwawa handed over to him his sixth terror. Gilgameš's fellow-citizens who had come with him began to lop off the branches and bundle them together, so as to lay them down at the foot of the hills.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		149-151	When Huwawa had finally handed over to him his seventh terror, Gilgameš found himself beside Huwawa. He  went up to him gradually  1 ms. has instead: XX  from behind, as one does with a XX snake. He made as if to kiss him, but then punched him on the cheek with his fist.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		152	Huwawa bared his teeth at him  1 ms. adds:, furrowing his brows at him . 2 mss. from Urim add 8 lines: Huwawa addressed Gilgameš: Hero, XX to act falsely! The two of them XX on him XX. XX the warrior from his dwelling. XX said to him, Sit down! XX Huwawa from his dwelling. XX said to him, Sit down! The warrior sat down and began to weep, shedding tears. Huwawa sat down and began to weep, shedding tears. Huwawa XX plea XX to Gilgameš.  instead of lines 152A-152H, 2 other mss. add 2 lines: He threw a halter over him as over a captured wild bull. He tied up his arms like a captured man. 1 of the mss. adds 1 further line: Huwawa wept, XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		153-157	He tugged at Gilgameš's hand.  4 mss. have instead: Gilgameš, let me go!  I want to talk to Utu! Utu, I never knew a mother who bore me, nor a father who brought me up! I was born in the mountains -- you brought me up! Yet Gilgameš swore to me by heaven, by earth, and by the mountains.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		158-160	Huwawa clutched at Gilgameš's hand, and prostrated himself before him. Then Gilgameš's noble heart took pity on him.  Gilgameš addressed Enkidu  3 mss. have instead: He addressed his slave Enkidu :
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		161-162	Enkidu, let the captured bird run away home! Let the captured man return to his mother's embrace!
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		163-174	Enkidu replied to Gilgameš  2 mss. have instead: His slave Enkidu replied : Come on now, you heroic bearer of a sceptre of wide-ranging power! Noble glory of the gods, angry bull standing ready for a fight! Young Lord Gilgameš, cherished in Unug, your mother knew well how to bear sons, and your nurse knew well how to nourish children! -- One so exalted and yet so lacking in  understanding  1 ms. has instead: judgment  will be devoured by fate without him ever understanding that fate. The very idea that a captured bird should run away home, or a captured man should return to his mother's embrace! -- Then you yourself would never get back to the mother-city that bore you!  1 ms. adds: A captured warrior set free! A captured high priestess XX to the ŋipar! A captured gudug priest restored to his wig of hair! XX ever, ever XX?  XX his attention to his words XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		175-177	Huwawa addressed Enkidu: Enkidu, you speak such hateful  1 ms. adds: hostile  words against me to him! You hireling, who are hired for your keep! You who follow along after him --  you speak such hateful words to him.  2 mss. have instead: why do you speak such hateful words to him?  1 ms. adds:
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		178-180	As Huwawa spoke thus to him,  Enkidu, full of rage and anger, cut his throat  2 mss. from Nibru have instead: they cut his throat .  He put  1 ms. has instead: He chucked  the same 2 mss. from Nibru have instead: They put  his head in a leather bag.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		181-186	They entered before Enlil. After they had kissed the ground before Enlil, they threw the leather bag down, tipped out his head, and placed it before Enlil. When Enlil saw the head of Huwawa, he spoke angrily to Gilgameš:  instead of lines 181-186, 1 ms. has: They brought it before Enlil and Ninlil. When Enlil approached (?), XX went out the window (?), and Ninlil went out XX. When Enlil with Ninlil had returned (?),
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		187-192	Why did you act in this way?  XX did you act XX?  1 ms. has instead: Was it commanded that his name should be wiped from the earth?   He should have sat before you!  1 ms. has instead: He should have sat XX, XX.  He should have eaten the bread that you eat, and should have drunk the water that you drink!  He should have been honoured XX you!  1 ms. has instead: Huwawa -- he XX honoured!  1 other ms. has instead: From his seat, Enlil assigned Huwawa's heavenly auras to XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		193-199	The ms. tradition for lines 193-199 is extremely confused about the order in which the various auras are assigned; the following sequence is a compromise: He gave Huwawa's first aura to the fields. He gave his second aura to the rivers. He gave his third aura to the reedbeds. He gave his fourth aura to the lions. He gave his fifth aura to the  palace  1 ms. has instead: debt slaves . He gave his sixth aura to the  forests  1 ms. has instead: the hills . He gave his seventh aura to Nungalthe goddess of prisoners.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		200	XX his terror XX  1 ms. or possibly 2 mss. have instead: XX the rest of the auras XX Gilgameš XX.
t.1.8.1.5	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version A)		201-202	Mighty one, Gilgameš,  who is cherished!  1 ms. has instead: be praised! Enkidu, be praised ! Nisaba, be praised!  instead of lines 201-202, 1 ms. has: Huwawa, XX! XX cherished, XX! Enkidu, be praised XX!
