id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		A1-10	XX sets up XX. I will XX the perishing of my mankind; for Nintur, I will stop the annihilation of my creatures, and I will return the people from their dwelling grounds. Let them build many cities so that I can refresh myself in their shade. Let them lay the bricks of many cities in pure places, let them establish places of divination in pure places, and when the fire-quenching XX is arranged, the divine rites and exalted powers are perfected and the earth is irrigated, I will establish well-being there.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		A10-14	After An, Enlil, Enki and Ninhursaŋa had fashioned the black-headed people, they also made animals multiply everywhere, and made herds of four-legged animals exist on the plains, as is befitting.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		B1-3	
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		B4-5	I will oversee their labour. Let XX the builder of the Land, dig a solid foundation.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		B6-18	After the XX of kingship had descended from heaven, after the exalted crown and throne of kingship had descended from heaven, the divine rites and the exalted powers were perfected, the bricks of the cities were laid in holy places, their names were announced and the XX were distributed. The first of the cities, Eridug, was given to Nudimmud the leader. The second, Bad-tibira, was given to the Mistress. The third, Larag, was given to Pabilsaŋ. The fourth, Zimbir, was given to the hero Utu. The fifth, Šuruppag, was given to Sud. And after the names of these cities had been announced and the XX had been distributed, the river XX, XX was watered, and with the cleansing of the small canals XX were established.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		C1-27	XXseat in heaven. XX flood. XX mankind. So he made XX. Then Nintur XX. Holy Inana made a lament for its people. Enki took counsel with himself. An, Enlil, Enki and Ninhursaŋa made all the gods of heaven and earth take an oath by invoking An and Enlil. In those days Zi-ud-sura the king, the gudug priest, XX. He fashioned XX. The humble, committed, reverent XX. Day by day, standing constantly at XX. Something that was not a dream appeared, conversation XX, XX taking an oath by invoking heaven and earth. In the Ki-ur, the gods XX a wall. Zi-ud-sura, standing at its side, heard: Side-wall standing at my left side, XX. Side-wall, I will speak words to you; take heed of my words, pay attention to my instructions. A flood will sweep over the XX in all the XX. A decision that the seed of mankind is to be destroyed has been made. The verdict, the word of the divine assembly, cannot be revoked. The order announced by An and Enlil cannot be overturned. Their kingship, their term has been cut off; their heart should be rested about this. Now XX. What XX.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		D1-11	All the windstorms and gales arose together, and the flood swept over the XX. After the flood had swept over the land, and waves and windstorms had rocked the huge boat for seven days and seven nights, Utu the sun god came out, illuminating heaven and earth. Zi-ud-sura could drill an opening in the huge boat and the hero Utu entered the huge boat with his rays. Zi-ud-sura the king prostrated himself before Utu. The king sacrificed oxen and offered innumerable sheep.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		D12-17	
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		E1-2	They have made you swear by heaven and earth, XX. An and Enlil have made you swear by heaven and earth, XX.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		E3-11	More and more animals disembarked onto the earth. Zi-ud-sura the king prostrated himself before An and Enlil. An and Enlil treated Zi-ud-sura kindly XX, they granted him life like a god, they brought down to him eternal life. At that time, because of preserving the animals and the seed of mankind, they settled Zi-ud-sura the king in an overseas country, in the land Dilmun, where the sun rises.
t.1.7.4	The Flood story		E12	You XX.
