id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		A1-10	She XX of the desert. She put the šu-gura, the desert crown, on her head. XX when she went out to the shepherd, to the sheepfold, XX her genitals were remarkable. XX her genitals were remarkable. She praised herself, full of delight at her genitals, she praised herself, full of delight at her genitals. She looked at XX, she looked at XX, she looked at XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		A11-27	When I have gratified the lord XX, when I have made XX brilliant, when I have made XX beautiful, when I have made XX glorious, when I have XX, when I have made XX perfect, when I have made XX luxuriant, when I have made XX exuberant, when I have made XX shining (?), when I have made XX return, when I have made XX brilliant, when I have made XX shimmering, I shall direct my steps to the abzu, to Eridug, I shall direct my steps to Enki, to the abzu, to Eridug, and I myself shall speak coaxingly to him, in the abzu, in Eridug, I myself shall speak coaxingly to Enki, in the abzu, in Eridug. XX had her go out XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		B1-5	Inana, XX it is I who XX. I, Inana, personally  intend to go to the abzu  1 ms. has instead: intend to go to Eridug . I shall utter a plea to Lord Enki. Like the sweet oil of the cedar, who will XX for my holy XX perfume? It shall never escape me that I have been neglected by him who has had sex.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		B6-15	On that day the maiden Inana, holy Inana, directed her steps all by herself towards Enki's abzu in Eridug. On that day, he of exceptional knowledge, who knows the divine powers in heaven and earth, who from his own dwelling already knows the intentions of the gods, Enki, the king of the abzu, who, even before holy Inana had approached within six miles of  the abzu  1 ms. has instead: the temple  in Eridug, knew all about her enterprise -- Enki spoke to his man, gave him instructions: Come here, my man, listen to my words.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		C1-14	XX she will drink, XX she will eat. Come here! XX. I will XX, XX do. The maiden XX the abzu and Eridug, Inana XX the abzu and Eridug XX. When the maiden Inana has entered the abzu and Eridug, when Inana has entered the abzu and Eridug, offer her butter cake to eat. Let her be served cool refreshing water. Pour beer for her, in front of the Lions' Gate, make her feel as if she is in her girlfriend's house, make her XX as a colleague. You are to welcome holy Inana at the holy table, at the table of An.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		C15-26	After Enki had spoken thus to him, Isimud the minister followed his master's instructions closely. He let the maiden into the abzu and Eridug. He let Inana into the abzu and Eridug. When the maiden had entered the abzu and Eridug, when Inana had entered the abzu and Eridug, she got butter cake to eat. They poured cool refreshing water for her, and they gave her beer to drink, in front of the Lions' Gate. He made her feel as if she was in her girlfriend's house, and made her XX as a colleague. He welcomed holy Inana at the holy table, at the table of An.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		C27-30	So it came about that Enki and Inana were drinking beer together in the abzu, and enjoying the taste of sweet wine. The bronze aga vessels were filled to the brim, and the two of them started a competition, drinking from the bronze vessels of Uraš.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D1-5	I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX. Holy Inana received heroism, power, wickedness, righteousness, the plundering of cities, making lamentations, rejoicing. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D6-9	Holy Inana received deceit, the rebel lands, kindness, being on the move, being sedentary. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D10-13	Holy Inana received the craft of the carpenter, the craft of the coppersmith, the craft of the scribe, the craft of the smith, the craft of the leather-worker, the craft of the fuller, the craft of the builder, the craft of the reed-worker. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D14-17	Holy Inana received wisdom, attentiveness, holy purification rites, the shepherd's hut, piling up glowing charcoals, the sheepfold, respect, awe, reverent silence. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D18-21	Holy Inana received the bitter-toothed (?) XX, the kindling of fire, the extinguishing of fire, hard work, XX, the assembled family, descendants. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		D22-27	Holy Inana received strife, triumph, counselling, comforting, judging, decision-making. In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will give them to holy Inana, my daughter; may XX not XX. Holy Inana received XX, XX,
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		E1-4	He has given me righteousness. He has given me the plundering of cities. He has given me making lamentations. He has given me rejoicing.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		E5-9	He has given me deceit. He has given me the rebel lands. He has given me kindness. He has given me being on the move. He has given me being sedentary.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		E10-17	He has given me the craft of the carpenter. He has given me the craft of the coppersmith. He has given me the craft of the scribe. He has given me the craft of the smith. He has given me the craft of the leather-worker. He has given me the craft of the fuller. He has given me the craft of the builder. He has given me the craft of the reed-worker.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		E18-26	He has given me wisdom. He has given me attentiveness. He has given me holy purification rites. He has given me the shepherd's hut. He has given me piling up glowing charcoals. He has given me the sheepfold. He has given me respect. He has given me awe. He has given me reverent silence.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		E27-36	He has given me the bitter-toothed (?) XX. He has given me the kindling of fire. He has given me the extinguishing of fire. He has given me hard work. He has given me XX. He has given me the assembled family. He has given me descendants. He has given me strife. He has given me triumph. He has given me counselling.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F1-13	Enki spoke to the minister Isimud: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Since she said that she would not yet depart from here for Unug Kulaba, that she would not yet depart from here to the place where Utu XX, can I still reach her? But holy Inana had gathered up the divine powers and embarked onto the Boat of Heaven. The Boat of Heaven had already left the quay. As the effects of the beer cleared from him who had drunk beer, from him who had drunk beer, as the effects of the beer cleared from Father Enki who had drunk beer, the great lord Enki turned his attention to the XX building. The lord looked up at the abzu. King Enki turned his attention to Eridug.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F14-18	Enki spoke to Isimud the minister: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where are the office of en priest, the office of lagar priest, divinity, the great and good crown, the royal throne? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F19-20	Where are the noble sceptre, the staff and crook, the noble dress, shepherdship, kingship? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F21-22	Where are the office of egir-zid priestess, the office of nin-diŋir priestess, the office of išib priest, the office of lu-mah priest, the office of gudug priest? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F23-24	Where are constancy, XX, XX, going down to the underworld, coming up from the underworld, the kur-ŋara priest? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F25-26	Where are the sword and club, the cultic functionary saŋ-ursaŋ, the black garment, the colourful garment, the XX hair-style, the XX hair-style? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F27-28	Where are XX? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F29-30	Where are the standard, the quiver, sexual intercourse, kissing, prostitution, XX running (?)? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F31-32	Where are forthright speech, deceitful speech, grandiloquent speech, XX, the cultic prostitute, the holy tavern? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		F33-34	Where are the holy niŋin-ŋar shrine, XX, the mistress of heaven, loud musical instruments, the art of song, venerable old age? My master has given them to his daughter.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		G1-21	XX king XX in the house of Enki should not forget a word. XX full of advice, loud voiced, knowing much XX. They said: By the bolt of the temple door, a frog spoke. He showed him to a place. Enki grasped the frog by his right paw. He showed him into his holy XX. He received XX the halub tree and his box-tree. He gave XX to the bird of heaven. He gave XX to the fish of the subterranean waters.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H1-7	The prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the XX Quay. Go now! The enkum are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H8-19	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H20-33	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got the enkum to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H34-41	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then for the second time the prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the holy XX. Go now! The fifty giants of Eridug are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H42-53	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H54-67	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got the fifty giants of Eridug to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H68-75	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then for the third time the prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the UL.MA hill. Go now! The fifty lahama of the subterranean waters are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H76-87	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H88-101	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got the fifty lahama of the subterranean waters to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H102-109	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then for the fourth time the prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the Field Hill. Go now! All the great fish together XX are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H110-121	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H122-135	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got all the great fish together XX to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H136-143	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then for the fifth time the prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached XX. Go now! XX, the guardians of Unug, are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H144-155	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H156-169	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got the XX, the guardians of Unug, to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H170-178	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then for the sixth time the prince spoke to his minister Isimud, Enki addressed the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the Surungal canal XX. Go now! The Surungal canal XX are to take the Boat of Heaven away from her! XX from holy Inana.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H179-190	The minister Isimud spoke to holy Inana: My lady! Your father has sent me to you. Inana, your father has sent me to you. What your father said was very serious. What Enki spoke was very serious. His important words cannot be countermanded. Holy Inana replied to him: What has my father said to you, what has he spoken? Why should his important words not be countermanded? My master has spoken to me, Enki has said to me: Inana may travel to Unug, but you are to get the Boat of Heaven back to Eridug for me.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H191-205	Holy Inana spoke to the minister Isimud: How could my father have changed what he said to me? How could he have altered his promise as far as I am concerned? How could he have discredited his important words to me? Was it falsehood that my father said to me, did he speak falsely to me? Has he sworn falsely by the name of his power and by the name of his abzu? Has he duplicitously sent you to me as a messenger? Now as these words were still in her mouth, he got the Surungal canal XX to seize hold of the Boat of Heaven. XX from holy Inana. Holy Inana adressed her minister Ninšubur: Come, my good minister of E-ana! My fair-spoken minister! My envoy of reliable words! Water has never touched your hand, water has never touched your feet!
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H206-217	So Inana got hold again of the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven; and then  XX Unug XX  XX the Boat of Heaven. Ninšubur XX, XX the Boat of Heaven. A seventh time XX  The great princely scion, holy XX. Holy Inana XX the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana at that time XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H218-223	Her minister Ninšubur spoke to holy Inana: My lady, today you have brought the Boat of Heaven to the Gate of Joy, to Unug Kulaba. Now there will be rejoicing in our city, now there will be rejoicing in our city. XX barges on our river XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H224-248	Holy Inana replied to her: Today I have brought the Boat of Heaven to the Gate of Joy, to Unug Kulaba. It shall pass along the street magnificently. The people shall stand in the street full of awe.  XX in joy. XX the old men of the city XX comfort, XX the old women XX counsel, XX the young men XX strength of arms, XX the children XX joy. XX Unug.    XX festival XX the Boat of Heaven. He shall recite great prayers. The king shall slaughter bulls, shall sacrifice sheep. He shall pour beer from a bowl. He shall have the šem and ala drums sound, and have the sweet-sounding tigi instruments play. The foreign lands shall declare my greatness. My people shall utter my praise.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H249-256	When she had XX the Boat of Heaven to the Gate of Joy at Unug Kulaba, it passed magnificently along the street. It reached the maiden's house, and she XX its place. XX the purified well, her principal well. Inana XX the divine powers which had been presented to her, and the Boat of Heaven, at the Ŋipar Gate. At the Agrun Chamber XX. Holy Inana XX the Boat of Heaven XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		H257-266	The prince addressed his minister Isimud, Enki spoke to the Sweet Name of Heaven: Isimud, my minister, my Sweet Name of Heaven! Enki, my master, I am at your service! What is your wish? Where has the Boat of Heaven reached now? It has just now reached the White Quay. Go now, XX admiration. XX admiration XX the Boat of Heaven. Holy Inana XX. XX admiration XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I1-5	Inana, you have brought with you the office of en priest, you have brought with you the office of lagar priest, you have brought with you divinity, you have brought with you the great and good crown, you have brought with you the royal throne.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I6-10	You have brought with you the noble sceptre, you have brought with you the staff and crook, you have brought with you the noble dress, you have brought with you shepherdship, you have brought with you kingship.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I11-15	You have brought with you the office of egir-zid priestess, you have brought with you the office of nin-diŋir priestess, you have brought with you the office of išib priest, you have brought with you the office of lu-mah priest, you have brought with you the office of gudug priest.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I16-21	You have brought with you constancy, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you going down to the underworld, you have brought with you coming up from the underworld, you have brought with you the kur-ŋara priest.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I22-27	You have brought with you sword and club, you have brought with you the cultic functionary saŋ-ursaŋ, you have brought with you the black garment, you have brought with you the colourful garment, you have brought with you the XX hair-style, you have brought with you the XX hair-style.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I28-34	You have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you XX.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I35-40	You have brought with you the standard, you have brought with you the quiver, you have brought with you sexual intercourse, you have brought with you kissing, you have brought with you prostitution, you have brought with you XX running (?).
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I41-46	You have brought with you forthright speech, you have brought with you deceitful speech, you have brought with you grandiloquent speech, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you the cultic prostitute, you have brought with you the holy tavern.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I47-52	You have brought with you the holy niŋin-ŋar shrine, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you the mistress of heaven, you have brought with you loud musical instruments, you have brought with you the art of song, you have brought with you venerable old age.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I53-59	You have brought with you heroism, you have brought with you power, you have brought with you wickedness, you have brought with you righteousness, you have brought with you the plundering of cities, you have brought with you making lamentations, you have brought with you rejoicing.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I60-64	You have brought with you deceit, you have brought with you the rebel lands, you have brought with you kindness, you have brought with you being on the move, you have brought with you being sedentary.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I65-72	You have brought with you the craft of the carpenter, you have brought with you the craft of the coppersmith, you have brought with you the craft of the scribe, you have brought with you the craft of the smith, you have brought with you the craft of the leather-worker, you have brought with you the craft of the fuller, you have brought with you the craft of the builder, you have brought with you the craft of the reed-worker.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I73-81	You have brought with you wisdom, you have brought with you attentiveness, you have brought with you holy purification rites, you have brought with you the shepherd's hut, you have brought with you piling up glowing charcoals, you have brought with you the sheepfold, you have brought with you respect, you have brought with you awe, you have brought with you reverent silence.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I82-88	You have brought with you the bitter-toothed (?) XX, you have brought with you the kindling of fire, you have brought with you the extinguishing of fire, you have brought with you hard work, you have brought with you XX, you have brought with you the assembled family, you have brought with you descendants.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I89-94	You have brought with you strife, you have brought with you triumph, you have brought with you counselling, you have brought with you comforting, you have brought with you judging, you have brought with you decision-making.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I95-108	You have brought with you the establishing of plans (?), the attractiveness of women, you have brought with you XX to handle the perfect divine powers, you have brought with you XX small XX, you have brought with you XX exalted XX, you have brought with you the holy tigi, holy lilis, ub, meze and ala drums, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you the XX of holy An, you have brought with you all of the XX, XX beer.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I115-125	Where the woman XX joy XX, she named it with the name 'The house Ganzer is rebuilt'. Where the trader said Fifty shekels but when he brought (?) it there was less, she named that place with the name 'Potsherds and scrap metal (?)'. Where the boat XX, she named it with the name 'XX'. Where the boat came to dock at the quay, she named that place with the name 'White Quay'. Where XX, she named that place with the name 'Blue Quay'.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I126-128	Enki spoke to holy Inana: In the name of my power, in the name of my abzu, I will establish XX in my abzu for the woman.
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I129-130	(Inana speaks:) Why has this one now entered here? XX taking the divine powers from me?
t.1.3.1	Inana and Enki		I131-142	(A third deity speaks:) May the XX in your name! May there be XX a festival! May XX pass their time XX at the gate of your Ŋipar! May the citizens of your city, Inana, the citizens of Unug, live XX! And as for you, Enki -- may XX your city, Eridug XX, and has indeed restored XX.
