id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		1-5	From the great heaven she set her mind on the great below. From the great heaven the goddess set her mind on the great below. From the great heaven Inana set her mind on the great below. My mistress abandoned heaven, abandoned earth, and descended to the underworld. Inana abandoned heaven, abandoned earth, and descended to the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		6-13	She abandoned the office of en, abandoned the office of lagar, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-ana in Unug, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-muš-kalama in Bad-tibira, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Giguna in Zabalam, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-šara in Adab, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Barag-dur-ŋara in Nibru, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Hursaŋ-kalama in Kiš, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-Ulmaš in Agade, and descended to the underworld.  1 ms. adds 8 other lines: She abandoned the Ibgal in Umma, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-Dilmuna in Urim, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Amaš-e-kug in Kisiga, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-ešdam-kug in Ŋirsu, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-šeg-meše-du in Isin, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Anzagar in Akšak, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the Niŋin-ŋar-kug in Šuruppag, and descended to the underworld. She abandoned the E-šag-hula in Kazallu, and descended to the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		14-19	She took the seven divine powers. She collected the divine powers and grasped them in her hand. With the good divine powers, she went on her way. She put a turban, headgear for the open country, on her head. She took a wig for her forehead. She hung small lapis-lazuli beads around her neck.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		20-25	She placed twin egg-shaped beads on her breast. She covered her body with a pala dress, the garment of ladyship. She placed mascara which is called "Let a man come, let him come" on her eyes. She pulled the pectoral which is called "Come, man, come" over her breast. She placed a golden ring on her hand. She held the lapis-lazuli measuring rod and measuring line in her hand.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		26-27	Inana travelled towards the underworld. Her minister Ninšubur travelled behind her.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		28-31	Holy Inana said to Ninšubur: Come my faithful minister of E-ana,  my minister who speaks fair words, my escort who speaks trustworthy words  1 ms. has instead: I am going to give you instructions: my instructions must be followed; I am going to say something to you: it must be observed .
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		32-36	On this day I will descend to the underworld. When I have arrived in the underworld, make a lament for me on the ruin mounds. Beat the drum for me in the sanctuary. Make the rounds of the houses of the gods for me.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		37-40	Lacerate your eyes for me, lacerate your nose for me.  1 ms. adds 1 line: Lacerate your ears for me, in public.  In private, lacerate your buttocks for me. Like a pauper, clothe yourself in a single garment and all alone set your foot in the E-kur, the house of Enlil.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		41-47	When you have entered the E-kur, the house of Enlil, lament before Enlil: Father Enlil, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		48-56	If Enlil does not help you in this matter, go to Urim. In the E-mud-kura at Urim, when you have entered the E-kiš-nu-ŋal, the house of Nanna, lament before Nanna: Father Nanna, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		57-64	And if Nanna does not help you in this matter, go to Eridug. In Eridug, when you have entered the house of Enki, lament before Enki: Father Enki, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		65-67	Father Enki, the lord of great wisdom, knows about the life-giving plant and the life-giving water. He is the one who will restore me to life.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		68-72	When Inana travelled on towards the underworld, her minister Ninšubur travelled on behind her. She said to her minister Ninšubur: Go now, my Ninšubur, and pay attention. Don't neglect the instructions I gave you.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		73-77	When Inana arrived at the palace Ganzer, she pushed aggressively on the door of the underworld. She shouted aggressively at the gate of the underworld: Open up, doorman, open up. Open up, Neti, open up. I am all alone and I want to come in.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		78-84	Neti, the chief doorman of the underworld, answered holy Inana: Who are you? I am Inana going to the east. If you are Inana going to the east, why have you travelled to the land of no return? How did you set your heart on the road whose traveller never returns?
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		85-89	Holy Inana answered him: Because Lord Gud-gal-ana, the husband of my elder sister holy Ereškigala, has died; in order to have his funeral rites observed, she offers generous libations at his wake -- that is the reason.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		90-93	Neti, the chief doorman of the underworld, answered holy Inana: Stay here, Inana. I will speak to my mistress. I will speak to my mistress Ereškigala and tell her what you have said.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		94-101	Neti, the chief doorman of the underworld, entered the house of his mistress Ereškigala and said: My mistress, there is a lone girl outside. It is Inana, your sister, and she has arrived at the palace Ganzer. She pushed aggressively on the door of the underworld. She shouted aggressively at the gate of the underworld. She has abandoned E-ana and has descended to the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		102-107	She has taken the seven divine powers. She has collected the divine powers and grasped them in her hand. She has come on her way with all the good divine powers. She has put a turban, headgear for the open country, on her head. She has taken a wig for her forehead. She has hung small lapis-lazuli beads around her neck.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		108-113	She has placed twin egg-shaped beads on her breast. She has covered her body with the pala dress of ladyship. She has placed mascara which is called "Let a man come" on her eyes. She has pulled the pectoral which is called "Come, man, come" over her breast. She has placed a golden ring on her hand. She is holding the lapis-lazuli measuring rod and measuring line in her hand.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		114-122	When she heard this, Ereškigala slapped the side of her thigh. She bit her lip and took the words to heart. She said to Neti, her chief doorman: Come Neti, my chief doorman of the underworld, don't neglect the instructions I will give you. Let the seven gates of the underworld be bolted. Then let each door of the palace Ganzer be opened separately. As for her, after she has entered, and crouched down and had her clothes removed, they will be carried away.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		123-128	Neti, the chief doorman of the underworld, paid attention to the instructions of his mistress. He bolted the seven gates of the underworld. Then he opened each of the doors of the palace Ganzer separately. He said to holy Inana: Come on, Inana, and enter.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		129-133	And when Inana entered,  1 ms. adds 2 lines: the lapis-lazuli measuring rod and measuring line were removed from her hand, when she entered the first gate,  the turban, headgear for the open country, was removed from her head. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		134-138	When she entered the second gate, the small lapis-lazuli beads were removed from her neck. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		139-143	When she entered the third gate, the twin egg-shaped beads were removed from her breast. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		144-148	When she entered the fourth gate, the "Come, man, come" pectoral was removed from her breast. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		149-153	When she entered the fifth gate, the golden ring was removed from her hand. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		154-158	When she entered the sixth gate, the lapis-lazuli measuring rod and measuring line were removed from her hand. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		159-163	When she entered the seventh gate, the pala dress, the garment of ladyship, was removed from her body. What is this? Be silent, Inana, a divine power of the underworld has been fulfilled. Inana, you must not open your mouth against the rites of the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		164-172	After she had crouched down and had her clothes removed, they were carried away. Then she made her sister Ereškigala rise from her throne, and instead she sat on her throne. The Anuna, the seven judges, rendered their decision against her. They looked at her -- it was the look of death. They spoke to her -- it was the speech of anger. They shouted at her -- it was the shout of heavy guilt. The afflicted woman was turned into a corpse. And the corpse was hung on a hook.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		173-175	After three days and three nights had passed, her minister Ninšubur  2 mss. add 2 lines:, her minister who speaks fair words, her escort who speaks trustworthy words,  carried out the instructions of her mistress  1 ms. has instead 2 lines: did not forget her orders, she did not neglect her instructions .
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		176-182	She made a lament for her in her ruined (houses). She beat the drum for her in the sanctuaries. She made the rounds of the houses of the gods for her. She lacerated her eyes for her, she lacerated her nose. In private she lacerated her buttocks for her. Like a pauper, she clothed herself in a single garment, and all alone she set her foot in the E-kur, the house of Enlil.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		183-189	When she had entered the E-kur, the house of Enlil, she lamented before Enlil: Father Enlil, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		190-194	In his rage Father Enlil answered Ninšubur: My daughter craved the great heaven and she craved the great below as well. Inana craved the great heaven and she craved the great below as well. The divine powers of the underworld are divine powers which should not be craved, for whoever gets them must remain in the underworld. Who, having got to that place, could then expect to come up again?
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		195-203	Thus Father Enlil did not help in this matter, so she went to Urim. In the E-mud-kura at Urim, when she had entered the E-kiš-nu-ŋal, the house of Nanna, she lamented before Nanna: Father Nanna, don't let your daughter be killed in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		204-208	In his rage Father Nanna answered Ninšubur: My daughter craved the great heaven and she craved the great below as well. Inana craved the great heaven and she craved the great below as well. The divine powers of the underworld are divine powers which should not be craved, for whoever gets them must remain in the underworld. Who, having got to that place, could then expect to come up again?
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		209-216	Thus Father Nanna did not help her in this matter, so she went to Eridug. In Eridug, when she had entered the house of Enki, she lamented before Enki: Father Enki, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld. Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld. Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone. Don't let your boxwood be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood. Don't let young lady Inana be killed in the underworld.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		217-225	Father Enki answered Ninšubur: What has my daughter done? She has me worried. What has Inana done? She has me worried. What has the mistress of all the lands done? She has me worried. What has the mistress of heaven done? She has me worried.  1 ms. adds 1 line: Thus Father Enki helped her in this matter.  He removed some dirt from the tip of his fingernail and created the kur-ŋara. He removed some dirt from the tip of his other fingernail and created the gala-tura. To the kur-ŋara he gave the life-giving plant. To the gala-tura he gave the life-giving water.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		226-235	Then Father Enki spoke out to the gala-tura and the kur-ŋara:   1 ms. has instead the line: One of you sprinkle the life-giving plant over her, and the other the life-giving water.  Go and direct your steps to the underworld. Flit past the door like flies. Slip through the door pivots like phantoms. The mother who gave birth, Ereškigala, on account of her children, is lying there. Her holy shoulders are not covered by a linen cloth. Her breasts are not full like a šagan vessel. Her nails are like a pickaxe (?) upon her. The hair on her head is bunched up as if it were leeks.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		236-245	When she says Oh my heart, you are to say You are troubled, our mistress, oh your heart. When she says Oh my body, you are to say You are troubled, our mistress, oh your body. (She will then ask:) Who are you? Speaking to you from my heart to your heart, from my body to your body -- if you are gods, let me talk with you; if you are mortals, may a destiny be decreed for you. Make her swear this by heaven and earth.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		246-253	They will offer you a riverful of water -- don't accept it. They will offer you a field with its grain -- don't accept it. But say to her: Give us the corpse hanging on the hook. (She will answer:) That is the corpse of your queen. Say to her: Whether it is that of our king, whether it is that of our queen, give it to us. She will give you the corpse hanging on the hook. One of you sprinkle on it the life-giving plant and the other the life-giving water. Thus let Inana arise.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		254-262	The gala-tura and the kur-ŋara paid attention to the instructions of Enki. They flitted through the door like flies. They slipped through the door pivots like phantoms. The mother who gave birth, Ereškigala, because of her children, was lying there. Her holy shoulders were not covered by a linen cloth. Her breasts were not full like a šagan vessel. Her nails were like a pickaxe (?) upon her. The hair on her head was bunched up as if it were leeks.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		263-272	When she said Oh my heart, they said to her You are troubled, our mistress, oh your heart. When she said Oh my body, they said to her You are troubled, our mistress, oh your body. (Then she asked:) Who are you? I tell you from my heart to your heart, from my body to your body -- if you are gods, I will talk with you; if you are mortals, may a destiny be decreed for you. They made her swear this by heaven and earth. They XX.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		273-281	They were offered a river with its water -- they did not accept it. They were offered a field with its grain -- they did not accept it. They said to her: Give us the corpse hanging on the hook. Holy Ereškigala answered the gala-tura and the kur-ŋara: The corpse is that of your queen. They said to her: Whether it is that of our king or that of our queen, give it to us. They were given the corpse hanging on the hook. One of them sprinkled on it the life-giving plant and the other the life-giving water. And thus Inana arose.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		282-289	Ereškigala said to the gala-tura and the kur-ŋara: Bring your queen XX, your XX has been seized. Inana, because of Enki's instructions, was about to ascend from the underworld. But as Inana was about to ascend from the underworld, the Anuna seized her: Who has ever ascended from the underworld, has ascended unscathed from the underworld? If Inana is to ascend from the underworld, let her provide a substitute for herself.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		290-294	So when Inana left the underworld, the one in front of her, though not a minister, held a sceptre in his hand; the one behind her, though not an escort, carried a mace at his hip, while the small demons, like a reed enclosure, and the big demons, like the reeds of a fence, restrained her on all sides.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		295-305	Those who accompanied her, those who accompanied Inana, know no food, know no drink, eat no flour offering and drink no libation.  They accept no pleasant gifts. They never enjoy the pleasures of the marital embrace, never have any sweet children to kiss. They tear away the wife from a man's embrace. They snatch the son from a man's knee. They make the bride leave the house of her father-in-law  instead of lines 300-305, 1 ms. has 2 lines: They take the wife away from a man's embrace. They take away the child hanging on a wet-nurse's breasts .  1 ms. adds 3 lines: They crush no bitter garlic. They eat no fish, they eat no leeks. They, it was, who accompanied Inana.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		306-310	After Inana had ascended from the underworld, Ninšubur threw herself at her feet at the door of the Ganzer. She had sat in the dust and clothed herself in a filthy garment. The demons said to holy Inana: Inana, proceed to your city, we will take her back.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		311-321	Holy Inana answered the demons: This is my minister of fair words, my escort of trustworthy words. She did not forget my instructions. She did not neglect the orders I gave her. She made a lament for me on the ruin mounds. She beat the drum for me in the sanctuaries. She made the rounds of the gods' houses for me. She lacerated her eyes for me, lacerated her nose for me.  1 ms. adds 1 line: She lacerated her ears for me in public.  In private, she lacerated her buttocks for me. Like a pauper, she clothed herself in a single garment.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		322-328	All alone she directed her steps to the E-kur, to the house of Enlil, and to Urim, to the house of Nanna, and to Eridug, to the house of Enki.  1 ms. adds 1 line: She wept before Enki.  She brought me back to life. How could I turn her over to you? Let us go on. Let us go on to the Šeg-kuršaga in Umma.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		329-333	At the Šeg-kuršaga in Umma, Šara, in his own city, threw himself at her feet. He had sat in the dust and dressed himself in a filthy garment. The demons said to holy Inana: Inana, proceed to your city, we will take him back.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		334-338	Holy Inana answered the demons: Šara is my singer, my manicurist and my hairdresser. How could I turn him over to you? Let us go on. Let us go on to the E-muš-kalama in Bad-tibira.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		339-343	At the E-muš-kalama in Bad-tibira, Lulal, in his own city, threw himself at her feet. He had sat in the dust and clothed himself in a filthy garment. The demons said to holy Inana: Inana, proceed to your city, we will take him back.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		344-347	Holy Inana answered the demons: Outstanding Lulal follows me at my right and my left. How could I turn him over to you? Let us go on. Let us go on to the great apple tree in the plain of Kulaba.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		348-353	They followed her to the great apple tree in the plain of Kulaba. There was Dumuzid clothed in a magnificent garment and seated magnificently on a throne. The demons seized him there by his thighs. The seven of them poured the milk from his churns. The seven of them shook their heads like XX. They would not let the shepherd play the pipe and flute before her (?).
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		354-358	She looked at him, it was the look of death. She spoke to him (?), it was the speech of anger. She shouted at him (?), it was the shout of heavy guilt: How much longer? Take him away. Holy Inana gave Dumuzid the shepherd into their hands.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		359-367	Those who had accompanied her, who had come for Dumuzid, know no food, know no drink, eat no flour offering, drink no libation. They never enjoy the pleasures of the marital embrace, never have any sweet children to kiss. They snatch the son from a man's knee. They make the bride leave the house of her father-in-law.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		368-375	Dumuzid let out a wail and wept. The lad raised his hands to heaven, to Utu: Utu, you are my brother-in-law. I am your relation by marriage. I brought butter to your mother's house. I brought milk to Ningal's house. Turn my hands into snake's hands and turn my feet into snake's feet, so I can escape my demons, let them not keep hold of me.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		376-383	Utu accepted his tears.  1 ms. adds 1 line: Dumuzid's demons could not keep hold of him.  Utu turned Dumuzid's hands into snake's hands. He turned his feet into snake's feet. Dumuzid escaped his demons.  1 ms. adds 1 line: Like a saŋkal snake he XX.  They seized XX.  Holy Inana XX her heart.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		384-393	Holy Inana wept bitterly for her husband.  She tore at her hair like esparto grass, she ripped it out like esparto grass. You wives who lie in your men's embrace, where is my precious husband? You children who lie in your men's embrace, where is my precious child? Where is my man? Where XX? Where is my man? Where XX?
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		394-398	A fly spoke to holy Inana: If I show you where your man is, what will be my reward? Holy Inana answered the fly: If you show me where my man is, I will give you this gift: I will cover XX.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		399-403	The fly helped (?) holy Inana. Young lady Inana decreed the destiny of the fly: In the beer-house, may XX bronze vessels XX for you. You will live (?) like the sons of the wise. Now Inana decreed this fate and thus it came to be.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		404-410	XX was weeping. She came up to the sister (?) and XX by the hand: Now, alas, my XX. You for half the year and your sister for half the year: when you are demanded, on that day you will stay, when your sister is demanded, on that day you will be released. Thus holy Inana gave Dumuzid as a substitute XX.
t.1.4.1	Inana's descent to the nether world		411-412	Holy Ereškigala -- sweet is your praise.
