id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		1-15	XX of heaven and earth, renewing his light, XX just prince who comes forth, Suen, whom the Great Mountain engendered to be a princely lord,  He is forceful, he is the king of heaven and earth! Lord Ašimbabbar, renewing his light! Suen, renewing his light! XX, renewing his light! The god of light, renewing his light! He is forceful, he is the king of heaven and earth! He XX in the pure sky, he shines forth towards the earth. On the basis of the decisions of great An, he gives important advice. He brings forth all the divine powers, to keep XX in good order. Youth elevated to be prince, my Ibbi-Suen! He calls him to a long and prosperous reign.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		16-40	Lord Ašimbabbar shines forth towards the earth. On the basis of the decisions of great An, he gives important advice. He brings forth all the divine powers, to keep XX in good order. Youth elevated to be prince, my Ibbi-Suen, whom he calls to a long prosperous reign! He comes forth majestically as far as the highlands and the outer limits of the mountains; their holy divine powers are pure, and he has perfected the divine plans. He directs his far-seeing gaze over everything in all its complexity. He has a perfect crown and divine powers of eternal days; his command cannot be overthrown. He prolongs the life of my Ibbi-Suen. Lord Ašimbabbar comes forth majestically. Their holy divine powers are pure, and he has perfected the divine plans. He directs his far-seeing gaze over everything in all its complexity. He has a perfect crown and divine powers of eternal days; his command cannot be overthrown. He prolongs the life of my Ibbi-Suen. The lord, the light of heaven and earth, XX. He is the ornament of the heights (?) of the firmament.  He has XX all its divine powers XX. My Ibbi-Suen XX. Lord Ašimbabbar is its crown XX. XX of the heights (?) of the firmament.  XX all its divine powers XX My Ibbi-Suen XX.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		41	Sa-gida
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		42-61	An XX favourable day XX holy XX. He has a righteous crown, long-lasting divine powers and a royal sceptre. Enlil has decreed lordship for his beloved one, as his destiny, and has created with magnificent grandeur the qualities of a warrior. Enki, renewing abundance and days of splendour, XX the Tigris and Euphrates in their wide flooding. Nintur, who causes human seed to propagate and brings living beings into existence, XX cities and crowded places, all the numerous people together. Nanna, the XX light, confirming the divine plans, new moon of eternal fame, light which goes towards the earth, has given authority (?) to my Ibbi-Suen, foremost among princes, over the south and the uplands as far as the outer limits of heaven and earth. Utu has produced justice and propriety for Ibbi-Suen the augustly powerful, strong among warriors, unsurpassed in his youthfulness, overthrowing the enemy lands, finding the right decisions and giving advice to the people. The good lady Ninirigal, mother of Kulaba, XX prayer and supplication XX, XX lady with an august name XX. XX long life.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		62	Sa-ŋara
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		63-64	XX youthful Suen, has bestowed XX on him, the king of heaven.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		65	Its ŋišgiŋal
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		66-69	XX is indeed the light of the lofty (?) XX; XX is indeed the light of the firmament. XX a long reign and years of abundance XX and will prolong your life, my Ibbi-Suen.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		70	Its uru.
t.2.4.5.3	An adab to Suen for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen C)		71	An adab of Suen. lines 70 and 71 are written as one line in source
