id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		1-16	I shall greet her who ascends above, her who ascends above, I shall greet the Mistress who ascends above, I shall greet the great lady of heaven, Inana! I shall greet the holy torch who fills the heavens, the light, Inana, her who shines like daylight, the great lady of heaven, Inana! I shall greet the Mistress, the most awesome lady among the Anuna gods; the respected one who fills heaven and earth with her huge brilliance; the eldest daughter of Suen, Inana! For the young lady I shall sing a song about her grandeur, about her greatness, about her exalted dignity; about her radiantly ascending at evening; about her filling the heaven like a holy torch; about her stance in the heavens, as noticeable by all lands, from the south to the highlands, as that of Nanna or of Utu; about the greatness of the mistress of heaven!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		17	1st kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		18	Her rising is that of a warrior.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		19	Ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		20-33	When standing in the heavens she is the good wild cow of An, on earth she instils respect; she is the lady of all the lands. She received the divine powers in the abzu, in Eridug; her father Enki presented them to her. He placed the lordship and kingship in her hands. She takes her seat on the great dais with An; she determines the fates in her Land with Enlil. Monthly, at the new moon, the gods of the Land gather around her so that the divine powers are perfected. The great Anuna gods, having bowed before them, stand there with prayers and supplications and utter prayers on behalf of all the lands. My lady decrees judgments in due order for the Land.  2 mss. add the line: Inana decides verdicts for the Land together with Enlil.  Her black-headed people parade before her.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		34	2nd kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		35-43	Making silver alŋar instruments sound for her, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet the great lady of heaven, Inana! Making holy ub and holy lilis drums sound for her, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet the great lady of heaven, Inana! Beating (?) holy balaŋ and holy lilis drums for her, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet  1 ms. adds: in (?) her grandeur, in (?) her greatness, in (?) her exalted dignity as she ascends radiantly at evening,   the eldest daughter of Suen  some mss. have instead: the great lady of heaven , Inana!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		44	3rd kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		45-58	Tightening their hairgrips for her, male prostitutes parade before her, holy Inana. Their locks of hair at the back are adorned for her with coloured rags (?); they parade before her, holy Inana. Clothed (?) in the leather (?) of divinity, they parade before her, holy Inana. The trustworthy  man  1 ms. has instead: king  and the proud lady, the doyenne of the great wise women, parade before her, holy Inana. Those who are in charge (?) of beating (?) the soothing balaŋ drums parade before her, holy Inana. Each girded with a sword belt, the strength of battle, they parade before her, holy Inana. Grasping a spear, the strength of battle, in their hands, they parade before her, holy Inana.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		59	4th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		60-68	Dressed with men's clothing on the right side, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet the great lady of heaven, Inana! Adorned (?) with women's clothing on the left side, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet the great lady of heaven, Inana! Competing with skipping ropes of (?) coloured cords for her, they parade before her, holy Inana. I shall greet  the eldest daughter of Suen  1 ms. has instead: the great lady of heaven , Inana!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		69	5th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		70-81	Young men wearing neck-stocks sing to her and parade before her, holy Inana. Young women, šugia priestesses, coiffured, parade before her, holy Inana. XX sword and dagger for her, they parade before her, holy Inana. With daggers in their hands, XX kurŋara priests parade before her, holy Inana. Those who cover their swords with gore spatter blood as they parade before her, holy Inana. Blood is poured on the dais standing in the guena hall, as tigi, šem and ala drums are made to sound loudly.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		82-87	The Mistress stands alone in the pure heavens. From the midst of heaven my lady looks with joy at all the lands and the black headed people, who are as numerous as  sheep  1 ms. has instead: ewes .  some mss. add the line: They parade before her, holy Inana.  I praise the lady of the evening, Inana, the august one, the young lady, Inana.  The lady of the evening reaches the borders of heaven!  1 ms. has instead: The lady exalted as high as the heaven, Inana, is august!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		88	6th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		89-105	When at evening, the radiant star, the Venus star, the great light which fills the holy heavens, the lady of the evening, ascends above like a warrior, the people in all the lands lift their gaze to her. The men purify themselves, the woman cleanse themselves. The oxen toss (?) their heads in their yoke. The sheep stir up dust in their pens. Because of my lady, the numerous beasts of Šakkan, the creatures of the plain, the four-legged animals  under the broad heavens  1 ms. has instead: of the broad high (?) plain , the orchards and gardens, the plots, the green reedbeds, the fish of the deep, the birds of heaven, all hasten to their sleeping places. All the living creatures and the numerous people bend the knee before her. When called for (?) by my lady, the matriarchs plentifully provide food and drink, and my lady refreshes herself in her Land. There is play in the Land, which is made festive. The young men take pleasure in their spouses.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		106-110	From the midst of heaven my lady looks down with joy. They parade before her, holy Inana. The lady of the evening, Inana, is august; I praise the young lady, Inana. The lady of the evening, her grandeur reaches the borders of heaven!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		111	7th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		112-121	At night the skilled and beautiful one (?), the joy of An, the ornament of broad heaven, appears like moonlight; in the heat of the noon she appears like sunlight. After the storehouses of the Land have been filled with fine food, and all the lands and the black-headed people have assembled,  1 ms. adds: and the storehouses of the Land have been made full (?),  those who sleep on the roofs and those who sleep by the walls step up before her with XX and bring her their cases. Then she makes her orders known, and identifies the evil. She judges the evil as evil and destroys the wicked. She looks with favour on the just and determines a good fate for them.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		122-126	From the midst of heaven my lady looks down with joy. They parade before her, holy Inana. The lady exalted as high as the heaven, Inana, is august! I praise the young woman, Inana. The lady exalted as high as the heaven, her grandeur reaches the borders of heaven.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		127	8th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		128-131	The beautiful lady, the joy of An, has ascended above like a warrior. She carries there what befits the XX of heaven. She takes counsel with An in his lofty place. Among  youths and heroes  some mss. have instead: heroic youths , may she be alone chosen!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		132	Ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		133	She is mighty, she is respected, she exalted, she is august and great, she is surpassing in youthfulness.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		134	Šagbatuku.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		135-141	As the lady, admired by the Land, the lone star, the Venus star, the lady elevated as high as the heaven, ascends above like a warrior, all the lands tremble before her XX. The faithful black-headed people bow to her. The young man travelling on the road directs himself by her. The oxen raise their heads in their yoke to her.  2 mss. add: The melody of the song of those tending the cattle resounds XX on the plain. The farmer XX the cattle XX their yoke in the Land.  With her the storehouses of the Land prosper.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		142-149	Everybody hastens to holy Inana. For my lady in the midst of heaven the best of everything is prepared (?). In the pure places of the plain, at its good places, on the roofs, on the rooftops, the rooftops of the dwellings (?), in the sanctuaries (?) of mankind, incense offerings like a forest of aromatic cedars are transmitted to her. They sacrifice alum sheep, long-haired sheep, and fattened sheep for her. They purify the earth for the Mistress, they  carry out purification rites for her  some mss. have instead: celebrate her in songs .
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		150-162	They fill the tables of the Land with ghee, dates, cheese, and seven sorts of fruits as first-fruit offerings for her. They pour dark beer for her, they pour light beer for her. Dark beer, emmer beer, and emmer beer for my lady bubble in the šagub jar and the lamsari vat for her. From pastes of honey mixed with ghee  some mss. add the line: From XX mixed with ghee , they bake date-syrup cakes for her. They pour out early-morning beer, flour, flour in honey, honey, and wine of sunrise for her. The personal gods of the people also attend upon her with food and drink.  They provide the Mistress with food in the holy place, the pure place.  some mss. have instead: They purify the earth for the Mistress, they celebrate her in songs.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		163-167	From the midst of heaven my lady looks down with joy. They parade before her, holy Inana. Inana, the lady exalted as high as the heaven is august! I praise the young lady, Inana. The lady exalted as high as the heaven, her grandeur reaches the borders of heaven!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		168	9th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		169-180	When the black-headed people have assembled in the palace, the house that advises the Land, the neck-stock of all the foreign countries, the house of the river of ordeal, a dais is set up for Ninegala. The divine king stays there with her. At the New Year, on the day of the rites,  in order for her to determine the fate of all the countries  1 ms. has instead: in order for the life of all the countries to be attended to , so that during the day (?) the faithful servants can be inspected, so that on the day of the disappearance of the moon the divine powers can be perfected, a bed is set up for my lady. Esparto grass is purified with cedar perfume and arranged on that bed for my lady, and a coverlet is smoothed out on the top (?) of it.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		181-186	In order to find sweetness in the bed on the joyous coverlet, my lady bathes her holy thighs. She bathes them for the thighs of the king;  she bathes them for  some mss. have instead: with head held high she goes to  the thighs of Iddin-Dagan. Holy Inana rubs herself with soap; she sprinkles oil and cedar essence on the ground.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		187-194	The king goes to her holy thighs with head held high,  some mss. add: she goes to the thighs of Iddin-Dagan,  he goes to the thighs of Inana with head held high. Ama-ušumgal-ana lies down beside her and  caresses her holy thighs  some mss. have instead: (says:) O my holy thighs! O my holy Inana! . After the lady has made him rejoice with her holy thighs on the bed, after holy Inana has made him rejoice with her holy thighs on the bed, she relaxes (?) with him on her bed: Iddin-Dagan, you are indeed my beloved!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		195-202	To pour libations, to carry out purification rites, to heap up incense offerings, to burn juniper, to set out food offerings, to set out offering-bowls, he goes into her Egal-mah. She embraces her beloved spouse, holy Inana embraces him. She shines like daylight on  the great throne dais  1 ms. has instead: the throne at one side (?)  and makes the king position himself next (?) to her like the sun.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		203-216	Abundance and celebration are prepared before her in plenty. He arranges a rich banquet for her. The black-headed people line up before her. With instruments loud enough to drown out the south wind-storm, with sweet sounding alŋar instruments, the glory of the palace, and with harps, the source of joy for mankind, musicians perform songs which delight her heart. The king sees to what is eaten and drunk, Ama-ušumgal-ana sees to what is eaten and drunk. The palace is in festive mood, the king is joyous. The people spend the day amid plenteousness. Ama-ušumgal-ana stands in great joy. May his days be long on the splendid throne! He proudly (?) occupies the royal dais.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		217-222	They praise my lady on my behalf (?) with the hymns of heaven and earth. You are the Mistress born together with heaven and earth. In the holy place, the pure place, they celebrate the Mistress in songs: Joy of the black-headed people, ornament of the assembly, Inana, eldest daughter of Suen, lady of the evening, your praise is good.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		223-225	From the midst of heaven my lady looks down with joy. They parade before her, holy Inana.  Inana, the lady elevated as high as the heavens, is august!  some mss. have instead: The lady of the evening, her grandeur reaches the borders of heaven!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		226	10th kirugu.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		227-228	She is mighty, she is respected, she is exalted, she is august and great, she is surpassing in youthfulness!
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		229	Ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.5.3.1	A šir-namursaŋa to Ninsiana for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan A)		230	A šir-namursaŋa of Ninsiana.
