id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		1-14	Lipit-Eštar, proud king, enthroned prince, most seemly offshoot of kingship, who walks like Utu, brilliant light of the Land, lofty in nobility, riding on the great divine powers; who settles the people in the four quarters; favoured by Enlil, beloved by Ninlil, trustworthy youth with shining eyes, worthy of the throne-dais, whose seemly head is adorned with the tiara, the good headdress, who  holds in his hand  1 ms. has instead: is perfect with  the sceptre over the black-headed, prince Lipit-Eštar, son of Enlil, wise shepherd, who leads the people to let them relax XX in pleasant shade, lord, great bison, beloved by An! Your trust is put in Mother Ninlil; Lipit-Eštar, you exert great power.
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		15-24	You who speak as sweet as honey, whose name suits the mouth, longed-for husband of Inana, to whom Enki gave broad wisdom as a gift! Nisaba, the woman radiant with joy, the true woman, the scribe, the lady who knows everything, guides your fingers on the clay: she makes them put beautiful wedges on the tablets and adorns them with a golden stylus. Nisaba generously bestowed upon you the measuring rod, the surveyor's gleaming line, the yardstick, and the tablets which confer wisdom.
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		25-39	Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son, you have realised justice and righteousness. Lord, your goodness covers everything as far as the horizon. King Lipit-Eštar, counsellor with huge intelligence, who never tires of discussion, wise one whose decisions guide the people, amply wise, knowing everything in great detail! To decide justly the lawsuits of foreign countries, you recognise true and false even in people's thoughts. Lipit-Eštar, you XX the wicked, but you also know how to save someone by commuting his death sentence; you know how to free someone from the severe punishment, from the jaws of destruction. The mighty do not commit robbery and the strong do not abuse the weak anymore: you have established justice in Sumer and Akkad and made the Land feel content.
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		40-50	Lipit-Eštar, king of Isin, king of Sumer and Akkad, you are the tablet writer of Nibru; Lipit-Eštar, you are the constant attendant of the E-kur, Enlil's house. You are the beloved one of Enlil's and Ninlil's hearts. Hero Ninurta is your mighty commissioner. Chief minister Nuska is your aid in all matters. You have been rightly chosen by Nintur as the purification priest of Keš. When in Urim, you are the youth who has the attention of Suen. You are the one to whom Enki gave the good headdress in Eridug. In Unug, Lipit-Eštar, you are the delight of holy Inana's heart. In Isin, Ninisina set up your lofty throne-dais.
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		51-56	Among joyful songs of the heart, in an auspicious regnal year, the prince, the powerful prince surpassing in greatness and majesty, your father Išme-Dagan, king of the Land, made the foundations of his throne firm for you. On the orders of An and Enlil,  he  1 ms. has instead: you  silenced the loud (?) strife of the foreign countries.
t.2.5.5.2	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar B)		57-63	Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son, you have made every mouth speak of your righteousness.  The tablets will forever speak your praise  1 ms. has instead: May your praise never disappear from the tablets  in the e-dub-ba-a. May the scribes XX and glorify you greatly! May eulogies of you never cease in the e-dub-ba-a! Perfect shepherd, youthful son of Enlil, Lipit-Eštar, be praised!
