id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.2.22	A dedication of a statue (Šulgi V)		1-6	Enlil, the beaming light, XX, whose utterance is immutable, the most powerful of the Anuna gods, XX, looked (?) favourably (?) at Šulgi, the fearsome dragon XX, the king, the creation of his hands. He granted (?) him great strength. His roar fills (?) the whole extent (?) of heaven and earth.
t.2.4.2.22	A dedication of a statue (Šulgi V)		7-12	In the E-kur, the great snake of the deep, XX, in Dur-an-ki, which lavishly XX the eternal divine powers, XX, Enlil determined a great fate from the womb for the long-enduring sapling of the brickwork founded by the princely one, Šulgi, who was born for a prosperous reign: Make the people obedient, you enduring king of the multitudes!
t.2.4.2.22	A dedication of a statue (Šulgi V)		13-21	The swift runner, a hurricane -- the strength of his loins is never ending, who emerges victorious from the race among the settlements; the terrifying one, who is furious in his running, the strongest among those selected from the people, XX. When he stretches his arms out, XX at his sides. Šulgi, XX from the horizon. Because of his being most powerful, in his vigour XX. He, the tireless one, XX the road. No king ever cared so much for the black-headed people; he established justice on a grand scale.
t.2.4.2.22	A dedication of a statue (Šulgi V)		22-29	On a day that dawned for prosperity, that was destined for rain-clouds, he ran from the Ki-ur of Nibru to the shrine of Urim, the E-temen-ni-guru; and provided the princely bowls of Nanna, set up in the morning dining-hall, with a copious ration. On that day, prosperity was decreed for him. In a violent storm, a whirlwind that broke out, Utu XX; Šulgi returned to the lustrous E-kur.
t.2.4.2.22	A dedication of a statue (Šulgi V)		30-35	In order that the heroes for ever praise Šulgi's great exaltedness, he made his XX enduring statue of everlasting fame brilliant like the heavenly stars, and set it up in majesty before the good eyes, filled with generosity (?), of the immutably eminent Father Enlil.
