id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		A1-8	XX protective deity XX. Amar-Suena XX his heart. He who XX the temple with an axe XX. Amar-Suena XX the abzu shrine. XX built with gold, and decorated with lapis lazuli. He applied himself to building the temple; King Amar-Suena applied himself to building the temple. The people turned against the king, and the foreign countries XX.
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		A9-25	In the first year the temple remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. Amar-Suena XX the divine powers of kingship. In the second year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. Amar-Suena XX his royal garments for mourning clothes. In the third year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. Amar-Suena could not interpret (?) the temple's ominous sign among (?) the birch trees. In the fourth year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. Although he had been advised (?) by a sage, he could not realise the plans of the temple. In the fifth year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. The abzu shrine has been XX by force. In the sixth year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. He was searching for the divine plan of the temple, but could not find it. In the seventh year it remained in ruins, and he did not restore it. Enki spoke to him about the temple, the temple that did not exist. In the eighth year, he applied himself to building the temple. By the ninth year, King Amar-Suena built the E-uduna of the wise lord (?) like XX.
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		A26-32	Then the lord, the great lord Enki, destroyed (?) the site of his own temple.  Father Enki XX Eridug XX. XX his minister XX
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		B1-4	The guardian (?) of the spacious land XX. As Enki lifted his gaze XX. Having left the temple XX in the abzu.
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		B5-9	At that time mankind was not XX. Far-reaching wisdom, wise words were not XX.  To grieve and to do evil was good (?). Amar-Suena XX to build the temple of Enlil.
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		C1-6	Lord XX. When he performed extispicy regarding the building of Enki's temple, the omen did not mention anything about the building of the temple, so he did not start it. To establish a lasting fame for himself, the king XX; to establish a lasting fame for himself, Amar-Suena XX. XX the temple of Enki XX.
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		D1-2	Lord, wise prince XX
t.2.4.3.1	Amar-Suena and Enki's temple (Amar-Suena A)		E1-2	He who XX. King Amar-Suena has not been assigned a fate from (?) it.
