id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		1-8	Those who leave through your gate are an uncontrollable flood. Shrine Urim, your interior is a mountain of abundance, your exterior a hill of plenty. No one can learn the interior of the E-kiš-nu-ŋal, the artfully fashioned mountain. Your place of marvel is XX of cedar, your name makes the Land rejoice. Your lord is the one called as the beautiful lord, the child of Ninsumun, the ornament of all the lands. Urim, your great divine power is the gods's shackle on the Land. Your name be praised indeed!
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		9-12	Your gate is the blue sky imbued with fearsomeness; only when it is open does Utu illuminate from the horizon. Your platform is where the fates are determined by the gods; you make just decisions. Your name be praised indeed!
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		13-19	In your interior, the evildoer dare not lay hold of the holy statutes. E-kiš-nu-ŋal, the evil-doer cannot even come to know your interior, which is a dragon. House, your terrace XX Enlil XX your offerings. At your Dubla-mah, the place where the fates are determined, the great gods determine the fates. Worthy of the E-temen-ni-guru, born XX, your name be praised indeed!
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		20-24	The beautiful lord XX the true shepherd Ur-Namma, XX Urim XX. The silent house XX like Utu. Your name be praised indeed! Ur-Namma XX, adorned with a lapis lazuli beard XX.
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		25-34	In his pure heart Ašimbabbar has chosen Ur-Namma, the king endowed with allure, the radiance covering the nation. Wickedness cannot pass unnoticed before his eyes. Ur-Namma has accomplished an achievement, justice! The king, who knows (?) the spreading branches, Ur-Namma acts (?) as constable. The eloquent one of the lord, who knows (?) the spreading branches, Ur-Namma acts (?) as constable. The king, Ur-Namma, refreshes himself at the house of Suen.
t.2.4.1.5	A šir-namšub (?) to Nanna for Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma E)		35-40	She has determined a fate for the king, for the Tigris and the Euphrates and for Ur-Namma. Its lady, the lady of possessions, the lady of XX, has determined a fate for Ur-Namma. The woman of the princely seed has treated him kindly. Ur-Namma XX.
