id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A1-17	I am the king, a wild bull of acknowledged strength, a lion with wide-open jaws! I am Šulgi, a wild bull of acknowledged strength, a lion with wide-open jaws! I am a great storm let loose from heaven, sending its splendour far and wide! I am good stock, with brindled body, engendered by a breed-bull! I am a king born from a cow, resting amid butter and milk! I am the calf of a thick-necked white cow, reared in the cow-pen! Dressed in a XX royal robe and holding out a sceptre, I am perfect for XX. I am also the good shepherd who takes joy in justice, the scourge and stick of all evil! Strength of lions, hero of battle -- I have no rivals! Handsome of limb, ferocious lion, I am perfection in warfare! Grasping a lapis-lazuli mace and a battle-axe, with long fingers I sharpen a tin knife to untie knots. In the turbulent affray of battle, in the conflict, I shoot out my tongue, a mušhuš darting out its tongue at the foreign lands, a dragon raging (?) at men.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A18-20	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A21-31	Since I first arose in human form, a bull-calf born in a year of plenty and announced at a time of prosperity, nourished on good milk, my head was refulgent with the crown. As I rose over my city like Utu, suspended in its midst, I filled the E-temen-ni-guru, founded with divine powers, with princely cornelian. I touched it and made it perfect with royal hand-washing rituals. I cleansed myself in water of purification from Eridug. Its seven wisdoms attended upon me, and they were not negligent of me, the radiant heart dressed in a robe.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A32-34	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A35-49	In the house of wise knowledge of the Land, I, Šulgi, king of Sumer, set a good example. My hand guides the holy reed stylus correctly.  XX the fields in the holy XX and the holy agricultural land with a lapis-lazuli measuring line, bringing in plentiful harvests, XX top-quality flax, top-quality barley. I am greatly expert in assigning work with the pickaxe and the brick-mould, in drawing plans, in laying foundations, and in writing cuneiform inscriptions on pedestals; I can make things absolutely clear on tablets of lapis lazuli. I also have a solidly based knowledge of the intelligent implementation of the counting, accounting and planning of the Land.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A50-52	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A53-75	I am fair of mouth with well-formed lips. My heart XX.  I also have a solidly based knowledge of XX. In my assembly where grand deliberation takes place, where the black-headed are gathered together, a minister pays attention to messages from foreign lands. Eloquent in the assembly and refined, he  He roared like a bull.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A76-81	I am a shepherd who, apart from being one who always makes the right decisions on what he has sworn, is also fully able to re-establish XX in the Land and to XX forcefully the house of the rebel lands; who grasps hold of the righteous as if they were great bulls, and who darts (?) out his tongue at the wicked like a snake in a terrifying place. I never frighten the just, and I never XX the evil.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A82-84	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A85-111	I am the leader living in Sumer! I am engaged in carrying out the planning! When I stand against the cities and territories of the hostile rebel lands, my battle is a hurricane that cannot be overwhelmed. When I surround their contingents from the south and cut the people off,  In the great palace, where I take decisions, when I XX a pure lamb, on the right XX favourable XX, as I XX on my great throne. In my well-established dwelling, I can tell whether to strike with weapons or not to strike with weapons. Since from birth I am also a Nintur creator deity, wise in all matters, I can recognise the omens of that extispicy in a pure place. I keep a look-out that XX. I am a lord XX, as I range about in my anger. I also have a solidly based knowledge of omens from heaped high censers. My vision enables me to be the dream-interpreter of the Land; my heart enables me to be the Ištaran god of justice of the foreign lands. I am Šulgi, good shepherd of Sumer. Like my brother and friend Gilgameš, I can recognise the virtuous and I can recognise the wicked. The virtuous gets justice in my presence, and the wicked and evil person will be carried off by XX. Who like me is able to interpret what is spoken in the heart or is articulated on the tongue?
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A112-114	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A115-142	Since I am also wise and highly intelligent,  Also I know the Martu language as well as I do Sumerian. XX mountain people walking in the hills XX, they greet me and I reply to them in the Martu language. Also I know the Elamite language as well as I do Sumerian. XX in Elam XX, they greet me and I reply in Elamite.  In wrestling and athletics I am XX. I am the shepherd who with nimbly gripping fingers XX. Who can resist me, on the exercise ground as well as in battle? The greatest heroes of the Land, the notable strong men and athletes from the foreign lands, the swift (?) of Sumer, the totality of combatants, XX at my wrists.  I am powerful in athletics, and I am strong XX in wrestling. I am Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, and no one can equal me!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A143-145	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		A146	I am a runner who is successful in his aspirations.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B1-16	Lion, feline XX  May its glory cover the cities, and its battle-cry smother the foreign lands! May the people be terrified at its roaring, as at a storm in the heavens! I am Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer! May he bring me the muscles of a lion, the sinews of a lion! May he receive (?) my spear!  The black-headed will look on in amazement, and XX in my city.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B17-19	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B20-71	Where I stand, I destroy foreign lands; where I sit, I plunder cities. At my command, XX. Where my weapons strike, XX.  Their bricks are dug up from the footings XX. The city which I smash shall not be restored; the houses which I destroy shall be counted as ruin mounds; the walls proudly rising to heaven shall not open XX.  XX I have been given great strength.  XX arrows of my quiver XX a flying bird. As if XX; XX like a wild bull in a meadow. My spear goes straight. My great emblems are raised at the edge of the mountains. When day breaks and Utu comes forth and looks upon the hills, I shall marvel at them.  XX may they be terrified, and may his troops be frightened.  Since I am a king who puts the Land on track,  Night falls,  The rebel lands XX. They are scattered by force, like sheep that have no shepherd.  May concord be promoted in the Land. May my attack cause them to collapse, like a wild bull going to its resting place.  May the numerous people in their well-established dwelling be avenged.
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B72-74	I am a hero! Let them appropriately acknowledge my fame! I am a shepherd! Let them repeatedly bless me in prayer according to the heavenly stars! Let them tell in song a perfect recital of all my praiseworthy deeds!
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B75-101	Since I am also pleasure-loving and a devotee of singing, I can perform tigi, adab and great malgatum compositions. When fixing the frets of the great lutes, I know how to raise and lower them. I am adept enough to play perfectly all the seven instruments. XX balbale on the flute; XX their divergent strings; XX the sa-eš instrument XX  a performing musician XX  I also have a solidly based knowledge of XX. XX praying in a melodious voice, capering joyfully to the sound of the holy balaŋ drum  XX in song, for my sister Ŋeštin-ana, my own mother Ninsumun XX in wisdom XX
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		B102-110	in the XX of Enlil, Ninlil and Nintur, XX Nanna and Ninurta, in the XX of holy Inana
t.2.4.2.03	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi C)		C1-14	To my brother and friend Gilgameš
