id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		1-6	I am a king treated with respect, good offspring from the womb. I am Lipit-Eštar, the son of Enlil. From the moment I lifted my head like a cedar sapling, I have been a man who possesses strength in athletic pursuits. As a young man I grew very muscular (?). I am a lion 
in all respects

3 mss. have instead: to the extremes (?)
, having no equal.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		7-16	I am a gaping dragon, a source of great awe for the soldiers. I am like the Anzud bird, peering about in the heart of the mountains. I am a wild bull whom nobody dare oppose in its anger. I am a bison, sparkling with beautiful eyes, having a lapis-lazuli beard; I am XX. With my kind eyes and friendly mouth, I lift people's spirits. I have a most impressive figure, lavishly endowed with beauty. I have lips appropriate for all words. As I lift my arms, I have beautiful fingers. I am a very handsome young man, fine to admire.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		17-22	I am Lipit-Eštar, king of the Land. I am the good shepherd of the black-headed. I am the foremost in the foreign countries, and exalted in the Land. I am a human god, the lord of the numerous people. I am the strong heir of kingship. Holding my head high, I am established in my position.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		23-32	I am An's purification priest with purified hands. An placed the great and good crown firmly on my head. Enlil gave the sceptre to me, his beloved son, in the Ki-ur. I am what makes Ninlil happy: she determined a good fate in the Ŋa-ŋiš-šua. I have been made excellently beautiful by Nintur, the joyful woman, in brick-built Keš. I am one looked on favourably by Nanna: he spoke to me affirmatively in Urim.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		33-42	Uta-ulu imbued me, the man of his heart, with great awesomeness in E-šu-me-ša. I am he on whom Enki has bestowed wisdom: he gave me kingship in Eridug. As the beloved husband of Inana, I lift my head high in the place Unug. I am a proficient scribe of Nisaba. I am a young man whose word Utu confirms. I am the perfection of kingship. I am Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		43-50	I am he who makes an abundant crop grow, the life of the Land. I am a farmer, piling up his grain piles. I am a shepherd making butter and milk abundant in the cow-pen. I am he who makes the fish and birds grow bigger in the marshes. I am a river of plenty, bringing flowing water. I am he who increases the splendour of the great mountains. I have been given enormous strength by Enlil. I am Lipit-Eštar, his young man who respects him.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		51-61	I am the provider of the gods. I am he who cares unceasingly for the E-kur. I am the king clutching a kid to the breast as a gift. I pray in all humility. I am a king standing in prayer. I am he who speaks friendly words to appease Enlil. I am he whose prayers make Ninlil happy. I am he who serves Nuska indefatigably. I am he who is ever praying (?) at the Ki-ur. Bestowing many things, I am perfect for the 
foundation

1 ms. has: city (?)
. I am one who always hurries, but whose knees never tire.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		62-70	Bringing first fruits, I do not pass by the E-babbar. I am he who records abundance for Nibru. I serve Keš as its purification priest. I am first-rate butter and first-rate milk for Urim. I am indefatigable with respect to Eridug. I am he who increases the food offerings for the place Unug. I am he to whom life was given in the E-kur. I am he who desires liveliness for his city. I am Lipit-Eštar, the shepherd of all foreign lands.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		71-81	I, the king, am like pounding waves in battle. Girded in manliness, I never loosen my harness. I am he who sharpens his dagger. In battle I flash like lightning. A firm foundation, I repulse the troops. I am a saŋkal stone, a pešpeš stone. I am a siege shield, a screen for the army. A clear-eyed warrior, I make the troops firm. I am Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son. Like a waterskin with cool water, I am life for the young men. Keeping my eyes on the road, I am 
the protection

1 ms. has: the aid (?)
 of the soldiers.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		82-92	I am a king who, as he sits, is fitted for the throne. I am possessed of a weighty persona for speaking. I am one with a far-reaching mind and intellect, examining requests. I do not hurry over anything, but research its background. I have a far-reaching heart and broad wisdom. I am a stone that brings XX out of the Land. I am one that has truth in his mouth. I am one who never destroys a just person. I am a judge who, in making a decision, weighs his words fairly. I am one who is well-acquainted with giving orders to the foreign lands. I have established justice in Sumer and Akkad, and made the Land feel content.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		93-97	What of my truthful things can be thrown away? I, prince Lipit-Eštar, keep the people on a straight path. As regards my integrity: in what respect have I ever been idle? I am a strong person who has brought distinction to everything. I am Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son.
t.2.5.5.1	A praise poem of Lipit-Eštar (Lipit-Eštar A)		98-108	In my royal palace, my holy and good residence, my spouse holy Inana made firm the foundation of my throne. She will embrace me forever and eternally. I will spend all day for the Mistress in the 
good

1 ms.: lapis-lazuli
 bedchamber that fills the heart with joy! I am Lipit-Eštar, the powerful heir; I am the king that makes justice prominent. May my name be called on in all the foreign lands! I am Lipit-Eštar, Enlil's son. It is sweet to praise me.
