id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		1-16	City of the finest divine powers, lofty royal throne-dais! Shrine Urim, pre-eminent in Sumer, built in a pure place! City, your well-founded great wall has grown out of the abzu! City, beautiful as the sky, endowed with beauty, colourfully decorated in a great place! Shrine Urim, well-founded ŋipar, dwelling of An and Enlil! Your lofty palace is the E-kiš-nu-ŋal, in which the fates are determined! Your pilasters heavy with radiance tower over all the countries! Its terrace like a white cloud is a spectacle in the midst of heaven. Its XX like flashing lightning shines (?) inside a shrine. Like a single bull under the yoke, XX. Suen's beloved pure table; E-kiš-nu-ŋal, Suen's beloved pure table. The king, ornament of the royal offering place, occupies the august courtyard; Ur-Namma the exalted, whom no one dare oppose, XX. Urim, the wide city XX.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		17-30	XX, the authoritative, praised himself exultantly: Under Ur-Namma, king of Urim, for whom a favorable destiny was determined, the roads have been made passable. An opens his holy mouth, and because of me rain is produced. He directs it downward into the earth, and abundance is brought for me. Enlil treats me kindly, XX. Enki treats me kindly, bestowing early floods, grain and dappled barley. Nintur formed me; I am peerless. XX brought me up well; I am the king of the Land. I am XX; under my rule the cattle-pens and sheepfolds are extended wide. Utu endowed me with eloquence (?); my judgments create concord in Sumer and Akkad. Ningublaga has given me strength. In the whole extent of heaven and earth, no one can escape from a battle with me.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		31-42	I am Ur-Namma, king of Urim, the protecting genius of my city. I strike against those guilty of capital offences, and make them tremble. The fear I cause XX. My judgments make Sumer and Akkad follow a single path. I place my foot on the necks of thieves and criminals. I clamp down on evildoers, who will be caught like snakes. I XX fugitives, and their intentions will be set right. I make justice apparent; I defeat wickedness. As if I were fire, even my frowning is enough to create concord. My word XX. XX the lands, the foreign countries XX Urim XX. Their food offerings make Nanna rejoice in E-kiš-nu-ŋal.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		43-49	After my seed had been poured into the holy womb, Suen, loving its appearance (?), made it partake of Nanna's attractiveness. Coming forth over the Land like Utu, Enlil called me by an auspicious name, and Nintur assisted at my birth. As I came forth from the womb of my mother Ninsumun, a favorable allotted destiny was determined for me.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		50-56	In me, Ur-Namma, the lands of Sumer and Akkad have their protecting genius. I am a source of joy for the Land; my life indeed creates! XX, the fields are resplendent (?) under my rule. In the fields growing with XX, XX did not multiply under my rule. In the desert, the roads are made up as for a festival, and are passable because of me. The owner of the fields XX; it rises (?) up to his chest. I have freed the sons of the poor from their duty of going to fetch firewood.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		57-69	After the storm XX, and the month had been completed (?) for me, Enlil chose me by extispicy on a day very auspicious for him. He spoke fairly to Sumer, and caused me to arise (?) from my family (?). Because of my broad understanding and wisdom, An the king entrusted XX into my hands. I am the cosmic bond of Sumer. I am XX good XX. I am XX. I am XX of the Land.  I, the lord, XX.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		70-78	I, Ur-Namma, born on high, XX shining. The people line up in front of me. Enlil has given me the task of keeping the Land secure, with unscathed (?) troops. I am clad in linen in the ŋipar. I lie down on the splendid bed in its delightful bedchamber. I cause the people to eat splendid food; I am their Enkimdu i.e. the god of irrigation and cultivation. I am the good shepherd whose sheep multiply greatly. I open the XX of the cattle-pens and sheepfolds. I am peerless. XX the pastures and watering-places of shepherds (?).
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		79-85	Since I have been adorned (?) with their rulership, no one imposes taxes on my abundant crops which grow tall. My commands bring about (?) joy in the great fortresses of the mountains. The joy of my city and the territory (?) of Sumer delights me. I release water into the canals of Sumer, making the trees grow tall on their banks. I have lifted the yoke of its male prostitutes.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		86-100	I returned XX to Urim. I made XX return (?) to his country XX like XX. I loaded its grain on barges, I delivered it to its storehouses. I returned its XX citizens to their (?) homes. I XX their earth-baskets. I XX the savage hands of the Gutians, the XX. After I had made the evil-doers return (?) to their XX, I restored (?) the walls that had been torn down; my outstanding mind XX. XX the shrine of Urim XX. I am the foremost workman (?) of Enlil; I am the one who XX food offerings.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		101-110	XX at a banquet with me in the city. XX joyful dance XX. I have brought abundance to Enlil's temple on the king's canal: I have directed ships both to Kar-ŋeština of Enlil and to the lapis-lazuli quay of Nanna. Alcohol and syrup have been poured out before Enlil. To me, the shepherd Ur-Namma, let life be given as a reward! For Nanna, my master, I have built his temple; as if it were a verdant hillside, I have set up the E-kiš-nu-ŋal in a great place. I have surrounded (?) its terrace with a gold and lapis-lazuli fence.
t.2.4.1.3	A praise poem of Ur-Namma (Ur-Namma C)		111-115	I am the creature of Nanna! I am the older brother of Gilgameš! I am the son borne by Ninsumun, a princely seed! For me, kingship came down from heaven! Sweet is the praise of me, the shepherd Ur-Namma!
