id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		1-8	August chariot! Enlil, the lord of wisdom, the father of the gods, ordered your construction in the E-kur, his exalted shrine. He instructed Išme-Dagan, the wise shepherd called by an auspicious name, born from a beautiful mother's womb, the adviser of the Land, to make your holy and pure divine powers manifest. He set to work on you and worked without stopping. He decorated you with XX and lapis lazuli. He placed you XX.
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		9-18	Your two XX are something to be marvelled at. Your furnishings are most outstanding, like a forest of aromatic cedars. Your pole is a field with open furrows, an abundance of dappled grain. Your XX is a thick cloud covering the XX of heaven all over. Your yoke is a huge neck-stock from which there is no escape, which clamps down the evildoer. Your rope-fastened pegs are laid down as a huge net spanning heaven and earth.



t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		19-21	Your side-poles (?) are XX subduing the hostile countries. Your XX of the side-poles are XX.

t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		28-40	Your mudguard is Utu XX the horizon, XX. The front of your mudguard is the ornament of (?) XX. Your implements are Nanna who fills the midst of heaven with delight. Your axle is XX which XX a flood. Your rope-box is a whip XX which rouses up the donkeys. Your pole-pin is a huge open battle-net which does not let the evildoer escape. Your farings are the exalted princely divine powers sought out with great care. Your platform is warriors fiercely attacking each other. Your side beams are strong breeding bulls carrying a heavy load. Your cross-beams are urgent young men embracing each other. Your side-boards are XX. Your foot-board is XX. Your seat XX.

t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		62-64	At that time Išme-Dagan XX decorated the chariot with silver, gold, and lapis lazuli for his king, Enlil.
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		65	The sa-gida.
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		66-81	His great festival having been performed perfectly, Enlil stepped onto the chariot and embraced Mother Ninlil, his spouse. He was followed by Ninurta, his mighty hero, and by the Anuna who are with Enlil. The chariot shimmers like lightening, its rumbling noise is sweet. His donkeys are harnessed to the yoke. Enlil came out on his august votive (?) chariot radiantly. Ninurta, the support of his father, made the way pleasant. Having reached the place which gladdens the soul, where the seed is blessed, Enlil stepped down from his holy XX and established a feast.


t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		82-87	After you have taken out the implements to the XX fields from XX, let the hoe and the plough, the implements of field workers, rival each other before you. The king has paid attention to Enlil's instructions: Ninurta has prepared the holy plough, has ploughed the fertile fields and, to see that the silos and granaries of Enlil will be piled up high, he has sown with good seed.
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		88-95	The young hero then proudly enters the resplendent E-kur, Lord Ninurta prays to Enlil: Please, look with favour on Išme-Dagan, the accomplished shepherd, who is at your service in the dining-hall; on the king who has built you the chariot! Give him Inana your beloved eldest daughter as a spouse. May they embrace each other forever! May the days of delight and sweetness last long in her holy embrace full of life!
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		96	The sa-ŋara.
t.2.5.4.09	Išme-Dagan and Enlil's chariot: a tigi to Enlil (Išme-Dagan I)		97	It is a tigi of Enlil.
