id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Nibru	1-5	Who will dig it? Who will dig it? Who will dig the Asila-kug canal? Who will dig the Pabi-luh canal? XX Ur-Namma will dig it. XX will dig it.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Nibru	6-14	XX, XX Ašimbabbar you are on your XX because of Enlil. The watercourse of XX is full of fish, and the air above is full of birds. The fresh water of XX is full of fish, the air above is full of birds. XX honey-plants are planted, and the carp grow fat. XX honey-plants are planted, and the carp grow fat. The gizi reed of XX is so sweet that the fish eat them. The gizi reed of XX is so sweet that the fish eat them. Since my XX was founded, it is teeming with fish and birds. Since XX was founded, it is teeming with fish and birds.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Nibru	15-16	Its XX is the master of Eridug -- your provider (?) Ur-Namma is exultant. Nudimmud, the master of Eridug -- your provider (?) is exultant.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Nibru	17-18	May the fresh water bring XX; may they be carried in baskets to me. May the fresh water bring XX; may they be carried in baskets to me.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	1-5	Who will dig it? Who will dig it? Who will dig the canal? Who will dig the Keše-kug canal? Who will dig the canal? Who will dig the Pabi-luh canal? Who will dig the canal? Wealthy Ur-Namma will dig it. The trustworthy, prosperous youth will dig it.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	6-20	My king, Lord Ašimbabbar, you are on your throne because of Enlil. Youthful Suen, Lord Ašimbabbar, you are on your throne because of Enlil. I, the king, whose fate was already decreed in the true womb, who raises his head in authority, Ur-Namma, the youth who caught the eyes of the Great Mountain Enlil, was chosen by Nunamnir in Sumer and Akkad. He decreed my fate in Nibru, in the mountain of life. He beamed at me approvingly and bestowed the kingship on me. In Urim, in the E-mud-kura, he made the foundation of my throne firm. He XX the holy sceptre to guide the numerous people in my hand. He XX the staff and the shepherd's crook to XX the expanding and teeming people. Lord Ašimbabbar XX a long-lasting life. Enlil XX of the four quarters of the world. He XX a lasting name, a name worthy to be praised. Enki presented me with my broad wisdom.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	21-33	ln my city I dug a canal of abundance and named it the Keše-kug canal; in Urim, I dug a canal of abundance and named it the Keše-kug canal. I named it the Pabi-luh canal, a lasting name worthy to be praised. The watercourse of my city is full of fish, and the air above it is full of birds. The watercourse of Urim is full of fish, and the air above it is full of birds. In my city honey-plants are planted, and the carp grow fat. In Urim honey-plants are planted, and the carp grow fat. The gizi reed of my city is so sweet that the cows eat them. The gizi reed of Urim is so sweet that the cows eat them. Since my XX, it is teeming with fish and birds. In Urim XX. May the watercourse bring them the fish into my canal, may they be carried in baskets to him. May the watercourse bring them into Urim, into my canal, may they be carried in baskets to him.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	34-35	Its king is the master of Eridug -- your provider (?) Ur-Namma is exultant. Nudimmud, the master of Eridug -- your provider (?) is exultant.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	36-39	King of the four quarters, you who make Enlil content, Ur-Namma, provider of Nibru, supporter of Urim, with you (?) the people pass the time joyously at (?) moonlight over the Land of Urim.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Unknown Provenance	40	Ur-Namma, king of Urim, sweet is your praise!
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Urim	1-10	

Who will dig it? Who will dig the XX canal? Who will dig the canal? Who will dig the Ŋisala-ŋara canal? Who will dig the canal? Wealthy Ur-Namma will dig it. Who will dig the canal? Prosperous Šulgi will dig it. Who will dig the canal?
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Urim	11-28	I, the king, whose fate was already decreed in the true womb, who raises his head in authority, Ur-Namma, the youth who caught the eyes of the Great Mountain Enlil, was chosen by Nunamnir in Sumer and Akkad. He decreed my fate in Nibru, in the mountain of life. In Urim, in the E-mud-kura, he made the foundation of my throne firm. He placed the awesome crown, the adornment of kingship, on my head. He put (?) the holy staff to guide the numerous people in my hand. He XX the staff, the shepherd's crook into my hand, and the nose-rope to lead the living. He XX the amazing house XX.


XX strengthened the roots of E-kiš-nu-ŋal, XX, E-temen-ni-guru, a delightful residence.

XX standing in silver XX.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Urim	29-36	XX, and I named it the Keše-kug canal. I named it the Pabi-luh canal, a lasting name worthy to be praised. The watercourse of my city is full of fish, and the air above it is full of birds. The city of the Keše-kug canal is full of fish, and the air above it is full of birds. The watercourse of the Pabi-luh canal is full of fish, and the air above it is full of birds. Its abundance brings fish and birds for me to the E-kiš-nu-ŋal. Its banks are lush with licorice, a honey-sweet plant to eat. Its arable tracts grow fine grain sprouting abundantly like a forest.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Urim	37-39	King of the four quarters, favourite of Enlil, shepherd Ur-Namma, the provider of Sumer and Akkad, beloved of Enlil, it is you (?) who makes XX of Urim pass the time joyously XX.
t.2.4.1.4	Ur-Namma the canal-digger (Ur-Namma D)	Urim	40	Ur-Namma, king of eternal fame, sweet is your praise!
