id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		A1-9	To XX the sanctuary like a cargo ship; to XX its great furnaces; to see that its canals XX waters of joy, to see that the hoes till the arable tracts and that XX the fields; to turn the house of Kiš, which was like a haunted town, into a living settlement again -- its king, shepherd Ur-Zababa, rose like Utu over the house of Kiš. An and Enlil, however, authoritatively (?) decided (?) by their holy command to alter his term of reigning and to remove the prosperity of the palace.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		A10-13	Then Sargon -- his city was the city of XX, his father was Laʾibum, his mother XX -- Sargon XX with happy heart. Since he was born XX.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B1-7	One day, after the evening had arrived and Sargon had brought the regular deliveries to the palace, Ur-Zababa was sleeping (and dreaming) in the holy bed-chamber, his holy residence. He realised what the dream was about, but did not put into words, did not discuss it with anyone. After Sargon had received the regular deliveries for the palace, Ur-Zababa appointed him cupbearer, putting him in charge of the drinks cupboard. Holy Inana did not cease to stand by him.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B8-11	After five or 10 days had passed, King Ur-Zababa XX and became frightened in his residence. Like a lion he urinated, sprinkling his legs, and the urine contained blood and pus. He was troubled, he was disturbed like a fish living in brackish water.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B12-24	It was then that the cupbearer of Ezina's wine-house, Sargon, lay down not to sleep, but lay down to dream. In the dream, holy Inana drowned Ur-Zababa in a river of blood. The sleeping Sargon groaned and gnawed the ground. When King Ur-Zababa heard about this groaning, he was brought into the king's holy presence, Sargon was brought into the presence of Ur-Zababa (who said:) Cupbearer, was a dream revealed to you in the night? Sargon answered his king: My king, this is my dream, which I will tell you about: There was a young woman who was as high as the heavens and as broad as the earth. She was firmly set as the base of a wall. For me, she drowned you in a great river, a river of blood.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B25-34	Ur-Zababa chewed his lips, he became seriously afraid. He spoke to XX, his chancellor: My royal sister, holy Inana, is going to change (?) my finger into a XX of blood; she will drown Sargon, the cupbearer, in the great river. Beliš-tikal, chief smith, man of my choosing, who can write tablets, I will give you orders, let my orders be carried out! Let my advice be followed! Now then, when the cupbearer has delivered my bronze hand-mirror (?) to you, in the E-sikil, the fated house, throw them (the mirror and Sargon) into the mould like statues.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B35-45	Beliš-tikal heeded his king's words and prepared the moulds in the E-sikil, the fated house. The king spoke to Sargon: Go and deliver my bronze hand-mirror (?) to the chief smith! Sargon left the palace of Ur-Zababa. Holy Inana, however, did not cease to stand at his right hand side, and before he had come within five or 10 nindan of the E-sikil, the fated house, holy Inana turned around toward him and blocked his way, (saying:) The E-sikil is a holy house! No one polluted with blood should enter it! Thus he met the chief smith of the king only at the gate of the fated house. After he delivered the king's bronze hand-mirror (?) to the chief smith, Beliš-tikal, the chief smith, XX and threw it into the mould like statues.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B46-52	After five or 10 days had passed, Sargon came into the presence of Ur-Zababa, his king; he came into the palace, firmly founded like a great mountain. King Ur-Zababa XX and became frightened in his residence. He realised what was it about, but did not put into words, did not discuss it with anyone. Ur-Zababa became frightened in the bed-chamber, his holy residence. He realised what was it about, but did not put into words, did not discuss it with anyone.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		B53-56	In those days, although writing words on tablets existed, putting tablets into envelopes did not yet exist. King Ur-Zababa despatched Sargon, the creature of the gods, to Lugal-zage-si in Unug with a message written on clay, which was about murdering Sargon.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		C1-7	With the wife of Lugal-zage-si XX. She (?) XX her feminity as a shelter. Lugal-zage-si did not XX the envoy. Come! He directed his steps to brick-built E-ana! Lugal-zage-si did not grasp it, he did not talk to the envoy. But as soon as he did talk to the envoy XX. The lord said Alas! and sat in the dust.
t.2.1.4	Sargon and Ur-Zababa		C8-12	Lugal-zage-si replied to the envoy: Envoy, Sargon does not yield.After he has submitted,Sargon XX Lugal-zage-si XX. Sargon XX Lugal-zage-si XX. Why XX Sargon XX?
