id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A1-4	XX encouragement, your heart XX. Mešlamta-ea, faraway XX.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A5	4th kirugu.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A6	You of august power, my prince Ibbi-Suen!
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A7	Its ŋisgiŋal.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A8-13	You are superlative, my master, you are superlative! Your power reaches to the outer limits of heaven. Lord Lugal-era, you are superlative, your power reaches to the outer limits of heaven. Your divine powers are artfully fashioned divine powers, incomparable divine powers! Sea with high waves, you are imbued with terrible fearsomeness! Mighty god who dwells in the Land, your great awesomeness covers heaven and earth!
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A14	5th kirugu.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A15-16	I will praise your greatness! You are superlative, my master, you are superlative! Your power reaches to the outer limits of heaven.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A17	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A18-31	Trustworthy warrior, I will praise you! Lord Lugal-era, I will praise you! You are the great and august neck-stock of the gods, you are a great awesomeness resting heavily upon the Land, a heavy flood-wave covering the foreign land. Your river is a mighty river, the river which determines destinies, an august river where the sun rises, which nobody can bear to look upon. Great barge riding on the flood waters, Lord Lugal-era: when you set foot in the place where all mankind is gathered, the princes of the underworld bow down before you; in the abyss you emit a bright light to them. XX has been placed in your hands. Lord Lugal-era, your greatness extends to the outer limits of heaven.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A32	6th kirugu.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A33	You of august power, my prince Ibbi-Suen!
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A34	Its ŋisgiŋal.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A35-43	My king, let me tell of your greatness! Lord Lugal-era, I will praise your greatness! You are august, you alone are august! Mighty god surpassing all the gods, elevated king reaching up to the heavens, mighty god, trustworthy lord by himself, River of the Ordeal, heart of the gods, decision-making lord who hates evil, who like Suen loves justice.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		A44-61	They are the lords for whom An and Enlil have determined their destiny. When everything had been brought into existence in heaven and earth, their destiny greatly XX. Enlil granted XX. XX of the princes, my Ibbi-Suen! XX is great, a great wall which XX the foreign lands. Perfecting the great divine powers, he, the son of Enlil, XX the wicked like Lugal-era. In his august power Mešlamta-ea greatly, in his august power he greatly XX. When he opens his mouth XX, eradicating the foreign lands, XX he heaps up the enemies in piles. In his august power Lord Lugal-era greatly, in his august power he greatly XX, XX a favourable sign. They are kings XX. They are XX sparing XX
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		B1-13	They are great warriors: their greatness is like the empty desert wastes. They are both the lords of the River, the River of the Ordeal which clears the just man. They weigh upon the evil man like a neck-stock. In Kisiga, their very anciently founded city, the trustworthy does not get caught, but the evil cannot pass through. They are a source of comfort to the hearts of An and Enlil, they are a source of relaxation XX. They are XX the great place XX. The place for which An and Enlil have determined its destiny XX, its divine powers are holy XX
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C1-6	Its divine powers XX. The seven divine powers, XX grandly established, adorned with the divine powers by the prince in the abzu, the prince XX adorned XX. The warrior qualities of Mešlamta-ea and Lord Lugal-era XX in the foreign lands; their greatness shines forth to the outer limits of heaven and earth, to the outer limits of heaven and earth.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C7	10th kirugu.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C8	You of august power, my prince Ibbi-Suen!
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C9	Its ŋisgiŋal.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C10-11	Their power is a storm which could eradicate the Land. Mešlamta-ea and Lord Lugal-era, it is sweet to praise you!
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C12	Its kišu.
t.2.4.5.2	A šir-namgala to Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era for Ibbi-Suen (Ibbi-Suen B)		C13	A šir-namgala of Mešlamta-ea and Lugal-era.
