id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.6.9.4	A prayer to Nanna for Rīm-Sîn (Rīm-Sîn D)		1-13	Rīm-Sîn, king of abundance, august doyen of rulers, may right and justice be your helpers. May they make a good XX for you. May they make XX for you. Rīm-Sîn, named with a name by An and Enlil, when you enter the Great Gate, the gate of Urim, may the favourable protective god and the protective goddess of peace, gatekeepers of the Great Gate, shine upon you XX. May they bring you back an answer of life and peace XX to your greeting which they bring before Nanna and Ningal.
t.2.6.9.4	A prayer to Nanna for Rīm-Sîn (Rīm-Sîn D)		14-30	May they cause a good XX that brings happiness, a mood of encouragement, to issue for you from within the E-kiš-nu-ŋal. May the gods of life of the Great Gate open the doors for you. May the gods of peace, guardians of the Great Gate, rejoice at your presence, and may their features light up at you. May they XX their beards XX for you. When you enter the Gate of Urim, the Gate of Splendour, XX the brickwork of Urim. XX the Gate of Urim. XX the Great Gate. May XX be your interpreter (?). XX the Great Gate. May they speak to you XX. May they cause XX for you with joyous hearts.
t.2.6.9.4	A prayer to Nanna for Rīm-Sîn (Rīm-Sîn D)		31-48	May they set favourable signs and encouraging words before you. May they cause you to place your feet in holy places, places of life. O Rīm-Sîn, pre-eminent prince of the foreign lands and of the Land of Sumer! -- in the Du-barag-gal-mah, the habitation of Urim, may Niŋerim-šu-tabbi in the Du-barag-gal-mah, may Niŋerim-šu-urur in the Du-barag-gal-mah, may Dugab-šu-gigi in the Du-barag-gal-mah, may Dugab-šu-tabbi in the Du-barag-gal-mah -- may they, the standing gods of the Great Gate and the benevolent gods of entering, stand at your right and left to assure you a destiny of life until distant days. May they bring your greeting to Nanna and Ningal. May they cause you to have a favourable sign permanently by your side and to receive offerings (?) favourable for you. Rīm-Sîn, you are my king!
t.2.6.9.4	A prayer to Nanna for Rīm-Sîn (Rīm-Sîn D)		49	A prayer to the gods of peace on entering the Great Gate.
