id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		1-4	Hero, terror-inspiring dragon of exceptional fearsome terror, powerful Ninurta! Rising hurricane, XX, mighty possessor of august strength, who lets no foreign land escape! Fitted for heroism from the womb, unrivalled!
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		5	barsud.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		6-11	You who treat as hostile the cities as well as the unsettled areas, the rebel lands -- Ninurta, as you pass by, like a terrifying fierce lion (?) you make heaven and earth tremble from east to west. When in judgment, like a hero possessing great strength, you batter a rebel land, by day you thrust, by night you rear up, and you leave the rebel land lying prone. If you merely lift your gaze, you make the great hills tremble (?) together.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		12	šagbatuku.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		13-15	Mighty lord, with all the qualities of Nunamnir! Support of your father! Ninurta, you are the right arm of the Great Mountain, on whom he has bestowed life. You understand how to establish and to fulfil the decisions pronounced by him.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		16	2nd barsud.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		17-23	Lord trampling underfoot all rulers, the powerful ones, XX, you do not let the evil and wicked escape, XX. The foreign land and the broad territories that you have looked upon with favour spread themselves before you in abundance. You have entrusted the various quarters of heaven and earth, with their settled peoples, to Ur-Ninurta, the youth who is all for you, the good shepherd who is attentive to you. You have made him to whom Enki has given wisdom understand how to XX them. May you be available to make the black-headed, numerous as sheep, follow your path.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		24	sa-gida.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		25	Cast down in heaps all those who are not obedient to the great hero Ur-Ninurta.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		26	Ŋišgiŋal of the sa-gida.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		27-35	Lord Uta-ulu, son of Enlil, who has come forth from the hills, Ninurta! Your imposing greatness is declared in praise songs. Your authority and your powerful greatness cover the numerous people in all the lands from east to west with their tempestuous splendour. Your father who engendered you, the shepherd of the gods, Lord Nunamnir, has placed the great divine powers of heaven and earth in your hands for safe keeping, has given you valour and pre-eminence, and let you have no rivals. You are the heart's delight of Ninlil: she loves you dearly. Rejoicing in your actions, she has made you awe-inspiring.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		36-46	Who like you is a god rising in glory, whose name reaches as far as the limits of heaven? You have given XX to the just youth, who was called from among the widespread people, engendered by the Great Mountain -- Ur-Ninurta, XX joy, to whom you have spoken favourably. On the dais XX you have bestowed on him a lapis lazuli XX. You have added years of joy to Ur-Ninurta's reign. You have built his city amid plenty, a habitation where the people are settled. May the black-headed direct their gaze at you as at the rising Utu. When you have given him the weapon that XX the hostile foreign lands, that makes the earth tremble, XX, you will completely devastate the populations that are disobedient to him. Uta-ulu, let Ur-Ninurta grasp (?) it in his hand.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		47	sa-ŋara.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		48	May you be XX a helper for the great hero Ur-Ninurta.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		49	Ŋišgiŋal of the sa-ŋara.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		50-53	Lord, your fixing of destinies cannot be upset, and your holy word is powerful. Ninurta, lord, your fixing of destinies cannot be upset, and your holy word is powerful. Determine a good fate for Ur-Ninurta, with years of life forever unalterable as his destiny.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		54	Its uru.
t.2.5.6.3	An adab to Ninurta for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta C)		55	An adab for Ninurta. lines 54 and 55 are written as one line in source
