id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		1-4	Goddess who excels the Anuna gods, who has gathered together all the divine powers! Your gaze is lordly as it surveys all the foreign lands in heaven and earth. Inana, lioness shining in the heavens, your divine powers are most complex, your cultic ordinances are unalterable, and your divine plans are influential.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		5	barsud.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		6-12	Your ideas are as profound as the abzu; no one is known to have perceived them. Your actions are very great, and there is no god to rival you. You fetched your divine powers on a favourable day, and none of them escaped you. You have secured the kingship, and nothing escapes from your hand. You have equal rank with An the king, and you decide destinies with him. Your utterances are as well-established as those of Enlil. Grandiloquent Inana, you have no rival in heaven or on earth.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		13-21	You cheer on the king whom the gods love: Ur-Ninurta, the youth whom you chose, in your honour an en priest. Nintur has created attractiveness for him, and has made him step forward to you for your admiration. She has confirmed his lot as favourable, and has made him XX before you. She has elevated as a prince the XX who is fitted for the emblem. Your holy heart has driven you towards him as if to a pleasant sweet scent. May he XX with you on your flowery bed which is full of delight. May the attentive youth, the prince who is all for you, stand at the service of your eternal divine powers. May Ur-Ninurta make the numerous people follow the just path.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		22	sa-gida.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		23	Inana, may Ur-Ninurta never cease doing so, until far-off days.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		24	Its ŋisgiŋal.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		25-34	Inana, lady of heaven and of the broad earth, powerful XX, who radiates XX, who shines by night, who XX goes forth from XX, who is diffused wide over heaven and earth. XX may you make eminent XX Ur-Ninurta, XX who is the awe XX and the joy of his mother. XX may he lift his head high, and be their great wild bull. Make XX bow low for him XX, so that he may clamp down upon them. Deliver them into the exalted hands of him created from good seed. Under his rule may the people rest in meadows with him as their herdsman. May Ur-Ninurta make the numerous people follow the just path.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		35	sa-ŋara.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		36	Inana, may Ur-Ninurta prolong the days of his life in your sweet holy embrace.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		37	Its ŋisgiŋal.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		38-40	Lady of the great divine powers, perfect in valour! Inana, lady of the great divine powers, perfect in valour! You have bestowed plenty and long-lasting life on Ur-Ninurta.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		41	Its uru.
t.2.5.6.4	An adab to Inana for Ur-Ninurta (Ur-Ninurta D)		42	An adab of Inana.
