id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		1-2	Great lady, majestic physician to the black-headed, holy Ninisina, daughter of An, may you be praised!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		3-9	Lady whose tempest, like a raging storm, XX the interior of heaven and the trembling earth, whose upraised fierce face, like a fire, rips the bodies of the enemy; who, like a dragon, does not bring up venom in her place where XX, paws of a lion, sharpened knives, claws constantly dripping blood, XX which prick the body with fear! When you draw through the flesh the scalpel and the lancet, knives like lion's claws -- the bodies of the black-headed people tremble because of you!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		10-15	Great storm that approaches the earth and has no rival, howling storm, roaring lion that cuts off the neck of the enemy, overpowering storm, XX spittle and gnashing its teeth in its XX! Storm that howls loudly, whose mouth drips blood, storm from whose mouth spittle spews constantly, pouring venom on the enemy,
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		16-25	Great terror of the desert that XX! A lion, a leopard rising from its lair and terrifying people, that like a great snare lies in wait for the evil-doer! Lady whose radiance is awesome, born of An, who cares for the righteous of the Land, who watches over the assembly, lady of the living and of the dead, who holds the life of the Land in her hand! Mistress whom no one can withstand, who sounds a triumphal cry! Holy Ninisina, who wears the ornaments of šuba stone in Niŋin-ŋar, the holy place! Lady who is supreme over the mountains, whose divine powers are awesome divine powers, instilled XX in the great shrine, the everlasting house of the Land!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		26-33	Lady, life-creator of the Land, your name is its great standard. Lady of the majestic divine powers who rivals great An, mistress of all the great gods, lady, you have instilled fear of you in heaven and on earth. Your face is awesome, your cry is majestic, your forehead XX, your mouth XX; your arm, XX the evil-doer like a net, has cut off XX.
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		34-39	Holy Ninisina, XX, whose raging heart, made like the heart of dusk (?), none can cool; whose angry heart no god can confront, which like the sea, bringing a flood-wave, drowns (?) the foe. Like the high tide, she pours spewed-out bile upon the enemy. She has made XX known in its midst.
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		40-43	Holy Ninisina, the city that fears (?) you is not restored. The XX you address (?) is turned into ruins for you. No one moves about in the rebellious land that you curse. The XX that fears (?) you does not cross the river.
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		44-56	My lady, your supreme magnitude and eminence being outstanding, the XX of your established assembly being XX, holy Ninisina, lady XX, mistress whose majesty XX, holy Ninisina, lady XX, lion, foremost viper XX, who XX, XX the place of oaths where the just hand is raised, the deceiver XX your name XX, XX on the enemies! May those who plan evil against Iddin-Dagan XX! Ninisina, let not the enemy carry away your name, O your name, Ninisina, O your name!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		57-64	Sublime An, father of the gods, XX, patient-hearted, who XX the princely divine powers XX greatly! The voice of a flood that covers the disobedient, that knows XX, the north wind XX,  May the deceivers of Iddin-Dagan who XX be overwhelmed as by a battle-net! Majestic god An, let not the enemy carry away your name, O your name, great An, O your name!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		65-72	Enlil whose great divine powers cannot be overturned, viper of the gods, Nunamnir, your XX lets loose fear and terror! The Anuna of all the lands strike XX with their hands. Your decision XX a tempest that XX furiously. In the land where no enemies exist, prayers XX to the city. May those who do not clasp the feet of Iddin-Dagan be drowned as by water! Great Mountain Enlil, let not the enemy carry away your name, O your name, Enlil, O your name!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		73-80	Ninlil, garbed in white, foremost and watchful lady who brings forth XX, lady who consummately perfects all radiance, who dwells with Enlil! The king who dares to utter your name falsely, who does not fear the slaughterhouse where blood flows at the place of transgression, the Land's river of ordeal -- make him bear the heavy guilt that XX! Great mother Ninlil, let not the enemy carry away your name, O your name, Ninlil, O your name!
t.2.5.3.4	A šir-namerima (?) for Iddin-Dagan (Iddin-Dagan D)		81-85	Aruru, whose divine powers cannot be overturned, XX an awesome tempest. Enlil who purifies all XX,  XX hostility and violence, XX Iddin-Dagan,
