id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		1-8	My lady, gracious woman, child of holy An, adorned with attractiveness, Enlil's beloved one, who is imbued with great fearsomeness and issues from the interior of heaven, the cherished lady of the gods. Bau, gracious woman, child of holy An, adorned with attractiveness, Enlil's beloved one, who is imbued with great fearsomeness and issues from the midst of heaven, the cherished lady of the gods.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		9-16	My lady, you have brought the divine powers from the interior of heaven. Your own father, An, the king, has presented you with perfect divine powers, so you inspire respect among the Anuna gods. Bau, you have brought the divine powers from the midst of heaven. Your own father, An the king, has presented you with perfect divine powers, so you inspire respect among the Anuna gods.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		17-24	After you had chosen the shepherd in the assembly for his attractiveness, you recognised him in XX, his lofty place, gave him XX, and XX. Bau, after you had chosen Gudea for his attractiveness in the divine assembly, you recognised him in XX, his lofty place, gave him XX, and XX.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		25	The sa-gida.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		26-33	My lady, imbued with great fearsomeness, XX, Lord Ninŋirsu has looked at you approvingly. He XX you with allure and has made your XX table in the E-tar-sirsir lavishly famous. Bau, imbued with great fearsomeness, XX, Lord Ninŋirsu has looked at you approvingly. He XX you with allure and has made your XX table in the E-tar-sirsir lavishly famous.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		34-39	You are the lady who renders verdicts, who decrees judgments and XX. You are the righteous one among the gods, the wife of the warrior. Bau, you are cherished in the heaven and on the earth. Bau, you are the lady who renders verdicts, who decrees judgments and XX. You are the righteous one among the gods, the wife of the warrior. Bau, you are cherished in heaven and on earth.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		40-45	My lady, you have looked up in the divine assembly and XX him (?) with charms. You have chosen with your heart a worthy man, the true shepherd Gudea. Mother Bau, he will duly praise you in your city, Lagaš! Bau, you have looked up in the divine assembly and XX him (?) with charms. You have chosen with your heart a worthy man, the true shepherd, Gudea. Mother Bau, he will duly praise you in your city, Lagaš!
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		46	The sa-ŋara.
t.2.3.2	A tigi to Bau for Gudea (Gudea A)		47	A tigi of Bau.
