id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		1-11	Child of An, he has chosen you in his holy heart in the great sky and on the great earth and made you worthy of the ladyship of the Land. Bau, child of An, he has chosen you in his holy heart in the great sky and on the great earth and made you worthy of the ladyship of the Land. Enlil has looked at you with favour, young woman, Mother Bau, from the shining E-kur, and made you eminently fit for Lord Ninŋirsu. The Great Mountain Enlil has looked at you with favour, young woman, Mother Bau, from the shining E-kur and made you eminently fit for Lord Ninŋirsu.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		12-21	In the E-tar-sirsir, founded for you by An, you decide the fate of all the countries; you, my lady, render verdicts and decree judgments. Bau, in the E-tar-sirsir, founded for you by An, you decide the fate of all the countries; you, Bau, render verdicts and decree judgments. The XX protective genius directs your black-headed people before you in your courtyard in Iri-kug. Bau, the XX protective genius directs your black-headed people before you in your courtyard in Iri-kug.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		22-30	My lady, what you say is firmly grounded; Bau, what you say is firmly grounded. It makes the king ruling in the land of Lagaš, in your holy dwelling place of the pure divine powers, extremely happy; my lady, it makes the king extremely happy. Bau, it makes the king ruling in the land of Lagaš, in your holy dwelling place of the pure divine powers, extremely happy; Bau, it makes Luma extremely happy, he salutes your holy words.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		31	This is the sa-gida.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		32-33	Lady whose horns are perfect (?), Bau, nobody can learn what you are; child of An, with XX An, grandiloquent one.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		34	Ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		35-50	My lady, what you say is trustworthy, your lofty words are enduring. Bau, what you say is trustworthy, your lofty words are enduring. Your holy words are devoted to the god, they are as clear as daylight for the king. Bau, your holy words are devoted to the god, they are as clear as daylight for the king, Luma. Your joyous countenance is as clear as daylight for the king; Bau, your joyous countenance is as clear as daylight for the king, Luma. Your words, which XX the pleasant place, are as clear as daylight for the king; Bau, your words, which XX the pleasant place, are as clear as daylight for the king, Luma.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		51-57	You have given a lofty name to Luma, the king XX by An, you have spoken to him with friendly words. Bau, you have given a lofty name to Luma, the king XX by An, you have spoken to him with friendly words. Lady who loves his city, you have made him pre-eminent; Bau, lady who loves his city, you have made him pre-eminent. In the holy place you have treated the king graciously.
t.2.3.1	An adab to Bau for Luma (Luma A)		58	An adab of Bau.
