id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.2.6.6.1	A praise poem of Sîn-iddinam (Sîn-iddinam A)		1-4	XX who respects XX. Sîn-iddinam XX his departing boat. He provided flour, gold and grain, befitting the great lady. XX this choice (?) grain, XX the lapis lazuli E-kur.
t.2.6.6.1	A praise poem of Sîn-iddinam (Sîn-iddinam A)		5-10A	He transported this cargo to the Quay of Life, the quay of Urim. Joyously he brought it into the majestic house, the house of Suen. Nanna was delighted with the king, and Ningal XX to him. Nanna was delighted with Sîn-iddinam, and Ningal XX to him. The Anuna, the great gods, blessed him. He had brought to complete perfection the plenitude, the pure first-fruit offerings, the first-fruit offerings of the new year. 
1 ms. adds 1 line: He had transported this cargo to the Quay of Life, the quay of Urim.

t.2.6.6.1	A praise poem of Sîn-iddinam (Sîn-iddinam A)		11-13	Suen put in order the food offerings and, after he had taken them to Nibru, 
1 ms. adds 1 line: and had brought them into the E-kur, the house of Enlil,
 Enlil, delighted with the food offerings, fixed a good destiny. His own mother, the great lady Ninlil, expressed deserved affection.
t.2.6.6.1	A praise poem of Sîn-iddinam (Sîn-iddinam A)		13A-18	
1 ms. adds 1 line: Suen addressed Enlil and Ninlil.
 He prayed to them to determine an eternal destiny for Sîn-iddinam: May the life of the humble shepherd whom you favourably address XX. May the life of Sîn-iddinam whom you favourably address XX. As a just destiny, may a life into the distant future be determined for him (?) in destiny. May he be allotted long-lasting life.
t.2.6.6.1	A praise poem of Sîn-iddinam (Sîn-iddinam A)		19-25	As I bring this choice grain to the lapis lazuli E-kur for you, may he hasten (?) XX thick bread XX like this threshed (?) grain. Let us give him years of favour, days of life and months of success. In his palace you (?) will bring to him (?) in perfection what pleases the spirit and gladdens the heart. May you be the gift of life for Sîn-iddinam, who discourses (?) pleasingly! May the royal throne rise high and endure eternally! Forever make foreign lands submit to his great name!
