id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	1-2	Say to Puzur-Numušda: this is what Šulgi, your lord, says:
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	3-7	When I had built the great fortress Igi-hursaŋa and An and Enlil had given to me the XX over all the foreign lands and the widespread people, each of their towns and all their provinces, and the people of the widespread Land lay in green meadows. I made them rest (?) in spacious habitations, in peaceful dwelling places.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	8-13	As for their men and women: the man among them goes wherever he pleases, and the woman with (?) spindle and hair clasp goes wherever she pleases. After they had set up stock-pens in the vastness of the desert, and established their tents and camps, the workmen and the labourers spend the days in the fields.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	14-15	In order that the ruler and the general manager can build everything for you concerning the fortress, carry out this work on the fortress now. The reputation of this fortress shall not be diminished.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	16-19	By consulting omens and according to my heart's desire (?) I have benefited (?) the life of the troops and the province XX. Now the troops have arrived. As for the work on this fortress, the men are to proceed with the building work on it.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	20-22	Now I have sent Aradŋu to you. Let the ruler and the general manager bring these men. They are to mobilise all the settlements.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	23-27	The master builder (?) has taken up his work. Where substantial work has been neglected, let him return to it. He is to reinforce and rebuild it. He is to complete the fortress within one month. Let him not question this assignment.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	28-30	May Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, go to join his troops. He certainly has flour provisions (?) with him. He should not be deterred by hardship.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	31	When the fortress is completed, a letter from the two of you should reach me (?).
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	32-36	When you have seen for yourselves, let Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, proceed to his troops. You and Aradŋu should not delay them! Let the building work proceed both by night and by the noonday heat. Your (?) orders are rigorous, and you should not give up this work load. It is urgent!
