id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		1-2	Say to Aradŋu: this is what Šulgi, your lord, says:
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		3-5	The man to whom I have sent you is not your subordinate -- he will not 
accept

1 ms. has instead: change
 orders from your hand! How can you ignore what he himself has done too, and that it is indeed so?
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		6-15	As I myself ordered, you were to secure the provinces, and to correctly guide the people and 
make them obedient

2 mss. have instead: secure the foundations of the provinces
. When you approach the cities of the provinces, inform yourself precisely of their intentions, and inform yourself of the words of their dignitaries. Let my roar 
be emitted over all the lands

1 ms. has instead: fill all the lands

1 ms. has instead: cover all the lands
. Let my powerful arm, my heroic arm, fall upon all the lands. Let my storm 
cover

1 ms. has instead: be released over
 the Land. Make the XX disappear into the desert, and the robbers into the fields! Until you reach Apillaša, my 'Sage of the Assembly', XX! Let XX.
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		16-17	That was how I had instructed you. Why have you not acted as I ordered you?
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		18-26	If I do not make my 'Sage of the Assembly' feel just as important as I am, if he does not sit on a throne on a dais, furnished with a high-quality cloth cover (?), if his feet do not rest on a golden footstool, if he is not allowed by his own highest authority both to appoint and then to remove a governor from his function as governor, an official 
from his charge

some mss. have instead: from his function as official

1 ms. has instead: from an official
, if he does not kill or blind anyone, if he does not elevate his favourite over others -- how else can he secure the provinces?
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		27-28	If you truly love me, you will not bear him a grudge!
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		29-30	You are important, 
but you do not even know your own soldiers

1 ms. has instead: and you even know the soldiers that are at Apillaša's disposal
. Your eyes have learnt something about 
these men

some mss. have instead: Apillaša's men
, and about 
Apillaša's heroism

some mss. have instead: my heroism
.
t.3.1.02	Letter from Šulgi to Aradŋu about Apillaša		31-35	If 
you, Aradŋu, are indeed my servant

some mss. have instead: you, Aradŋu and Apillaša, are indeed my servants
, you should both pay attention (?) to my written communications. Come to an understanding, you two! Secure the foundations of the provinces! It is urgent!
