id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		1-2	Say to my lord: this is what Aradŋu, your servant, says:
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		3-8	You instructed me, as I was taking the direct route to Subir, to secure your provincial taxes, to inform myself precisely as to the state of the territory, and to ensure its obedience by taking counsel with (?) Apillaša, the 'Sage of the Assembly', so that he could thus return the people of Subir to their customary way of speaking (?).
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		9-11	But when I arrived at the palace gate, no one enquired after the well-being of my lord. No one rose from their seat before me, or bowed down. 
1 ms. adds: They intimidated me.

t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		12-18	
When I came nearer

1 ms. has instead: XX carries XX
 -- well, your wayside hostel where carding-combs (?) and lances inlaid with gold, silver, cornelian and lapis lazuli have been set up, covers an area of one hectare! Apillaša himself is decked out in 
gold and lapis lazuli

1 ms. has instead: lapis lazuli, gold, silver and cornelian
, and he sits on a raised throne furnished with a rich raiment. His feet rest upon a golden footstool. He would not remove his feet in my presence!
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		19-21	To his right and left he had XX soldiers (?) stationed, five thousand at each side. He placed at their disposal six fattened oxen and 
60

1 ms. has instead: 20
 fattened 
sheep

1 ms. has instead: rams
 for a meal. He assumed the right to perform my lord's lustration rites.
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		22-25	After a close interrogation at the gate, nobody even bade me enter. When I finally entered, someone brought me a throne with studs plated with red gold and told me: Sit down! I replied: I am here to present the instructions of my king. Therefore I will not sit down!"
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		26-28	They brought (?) me 
two fattened oxen

1 ms. has instead: one fattened ox
 and 
20

the same ms. has instead: 6
 fattened sheep to my table. Then because, without XX, my lord's soldiers overturned my table, I became frightened and my flesh crept.
t.3.1.01	Letter from Aradŋu to Šulgi about Apillaša		29-34	In the month Ezen-Ninazu, after 
the 15th day

1 ms. has instead: five days had passed
, my lord gave me his instructions. 
By the first day

2 mss. have instead: after one day had passed
 of the month U-bigu, I 
sent to you

1 ms. has instead: I sent to my lord XX
 a messenger. Now it is 
midday

1 ms. has instead: mid-month

1 other ms. has instead: the day did not XX
, XX approached. May my lord know!
