id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		1-12	Lady Aruru of the house Keš, born in the mountains, the pure place! Nintur, supreme mother of all lands, Mother Nintur, Lady Aruru of the house Keš, born in the mountains, the pure place! Nintur, supreme mother of all lands, has appeared with the hair-raising fearsomeness of a lion. She has given birth to the en priest, has given birth to the lagar priest. On the holy throne-dais, Nintur has given birth to the king. Nintur has appeared with the hair-raising fearsomeness of a lion. She has given birth to the en priest, has given birth to the lagar priest. On the holy throne-dais, Nintur has given birth to the king.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		13-18	Nintur has placed upon his head the XX that excels all; XX, who has established giving birth in joy. Mother Nintur, Nintur, has placed upon his head the XX that excels all; Nintur, who has established giving birth in joy.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		19	Sa-gida.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		20-35	Forceful lady with the nobility of heaven and earth, XX born XX Nintur! XX, which the prince has put in the abzu, she who has contended with the Great Mountain Enlil! Nintur, forceful lady with the nobility of heaven and earth, XX born XX Nintur! XX, which the prince has put in the abzu, she who has contended with the Great Mountain Enlil! The cow cries aloud to her about her calf and, because of her distress, Mother Nintur looks for him, Mother Nintur, the august lady of Keš, she who has contended with the Great Mountain Enlil. The cow cries aloud to her about her calf and, because of her distress, Nintur -- Mother Nintur -- looks for him, Mother Nintur, the august lady of Keš, she who has contended with the Great Mountain Enlil.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		36-43	When Mother Nintur sat upon the throne-dais on the holy seat of joy, the seat from which she has made everything numerous, it was then that the highest divine powers, which are golden, the glory of the numerous people -- the en priesthood and the kingship -- were created for Enlil. When Nintur, Mother Nintur, sat upon the throne-dais on the seat of joy, the seat from which she has made everything numerous, it was then that the highest divine powers, which are golden, the glory of the numerous people -- the en priesthood and the kingship -- were created for Enlil.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		44	Sa-ŋara.
t.4.26.1	A tigi to Nintur (Nintur A)		45	A tigi of Nintur.
