id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		1-4	I, the queen, will look with wonder at the foliage. I, Inana, will gaze at the open foliage. May my bridegroom speak to me XX kindly words such as a farmer or a shepherd would speak.
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		5-8	I, the queen, will lie on the foliage. I, Inana, will run to the foliage. May they stand at my service XX. I will meet XX Ama-ušumgal-ana.
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		9-16	I will sprinkle water XX. I will make XX shine. I will make my meš tree sprout forth. I will sprinkle water in the house of Enlil. I will make XX shine. I will make my meš tree sprout forth. I will sprinkle water XX in E-kur. I will make my king grow like a meš tree in the courtyard. I will sprinkle water in the house of Enlil. I will make King Ama-ušumgal-ana grow like a meš tree in the courtyard.
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		17-28	I am perfect for the lord in E-kur. We are a fitting ornament in the joyful palace. In the house of Enlil XX. In the house of Enlil XX. XX in E-kur XX.

I shall decree a good destiny XX from the abzu for my king, a meš tree properly XX, XX verdant, full of beauty, of his mother and father, my XX who was born XX:
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		29-36	XX good semen, good seed; when he comes forth from the brickbuilt abzu, I will make him sprout forth like a meš tree. Ama-ušumgal-ana, may An create XX. XX shall supply you with XX. Your sweet beauty, like foliage XX. I shall cherish you XX. I will make Ama-ušumgal-ana sprout forth as just such a meš tree!
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		37-44	I shall perform laments for you with the balaŋ drum (?) XX. I shall lean against you XX as against a wood of cypresses. May you (?) rejoice XX in E-kur. May they stand at your service XX, man of my heart. For your sake I shall take my seat (?) in E-kur. I shall stand (?) in prayer for you in E-kur, the house of Enlil. In his exalted location, An gave you to me. Lord Enlil, the Great Mountain, XX.
t.4.08.06	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana F)		45	A balbale of Inana.
