id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		A1-12	You possess XX! An, Enlil, Enki and Ninhursaŋa treat you with deserved affection in your place of creation. Exalted Nanna XX, adviser in heaven and on earth XX! An, Enlil, Enki and Ninhursaŋa treat you with deserved affection in your place of creation.
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		A13-20	Youthful Suen, as you move the Anuna gods stand in attendance. In the four quarters of the world the black-headed people raise their eyes to you, the first-born son of Enlil. Nanna, youthful Suen, as you move the Anuna gods stand in attendance. In the four quarters of the world the black-headed people raise their eyes to you, the first-born son of Enlil.
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		A21-28	As you become manifest in the holy heavens, you XX broadly over all the lands. Your light is holy and purifies. Oh, ah, it has come forth for the king like the sunlight! Nanna, as you become manifest in the holy heavens, you XX broadly over all the lands. Your light is holy and purifies. Oh, ah, it has come forth for the king like the sunlight!
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		A29-31	Nanna, XX, for (?) the lord you have chosen, you have made the XX manifest. XX without ceasing (?),
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		B1-2	XX into the distant future.
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		B3-10	We are going, we are going, XX we are going to the house, to the XX of the lord, to the XX of Prince Šulgi, to the city that has been restored, to where speech and opinions are good, to where lips and hearts are pure, to where feet are firm on the ground.
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		B11-20	We are going to the shrine Nibru, Dur-an-ki, to XX brick-built Tutub, to the majestic Abzu, brick-built Eridug, to the E-šu-me-ša with the princely divine powers, in Urim to the house of Suen, to the E-kiš-nu-ŋal of Nanna, to the Agrun-kug, the beloved house of the lady, to the E-hursaŋ, the house of the king, to the E-namtila of Prince Šulgi. In the XX place of Suen, may you be Utu.
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		B21-32	The abzu has flourished, the abzu is beautiful. The abzu shall establish the lord as its lord. Lord Nanna, Lord Ašimbabbar, to the lord of the courtyard, noble Alamuš, may XX! May XX! May XX Inana of heaven XX in beauty! May the mistress XX in beauty in the shrine! May XX as desired! May XX! May you XX! XX of Ninsumun XX!
t.4.13.15	A hymn to Nanna (Nanna O)		C1-2	I shall address you XX! In the XX place of Suen, may you be Utu.
