id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	1-6	Lady coloured like the stars of heaven,
holding

3 mss. have instead: perfectly endowed with
 a lapis-lazuli tablet! Nisaba, great wild cow born by Uraš, wild sheep nourished on good milk among holy alkaline plants, opening the mouth for seven XX reeds! Perfectly endowed with fifty great divine powers, my lady, most powerful in E-kur!
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	7-13	Dragon emerging in glory at the festival, Aruru mother goddess of the Land, XX from the clay, calming
XX

1 ms. has instead: the region with cool water
, lavishing
fine oil

3 mss. have instead: plenty
 on the foreign lands, engendered in wisdom by the Great Mountain Enlil! Good woman, chief scribe of An, record-keeper of Enlil, wise sage of the gods!
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	14-20	In order to make barley and flax grow in the furrows, so that excellent corn can be admired; to provide for the seven great throne-daises by making flax shoot forth and making barley shoot forth at the harvest, the
great

1 ms. has instead: august
 festival of Enlil -- in her great princely role she has cleansed her body and has
put

1 ms. has instead: draped
 the holy priestly garment on her torso.
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	21-26	In order to establish bread offerings where none existed, and to pour forth great libations of alcohol, so as to appease the god of grandeur, Enlil, and to appease merciful Kusu and Ezina, she will appoint a great en priest, and will appoint a festival; she will appoint a great en priest of the Land.
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	27-35	He Enki (?) approaches the maiden Nisaba in prayer. He has organised pure food-offerings; he has opened up Nisaba's house of learning, and has placed the lapis-lazuli tablet on her knees, for her to consult the holy tablet of the heavenly stars. In Aratta he has placed E-zagin at her disposal. You have built up Ereš in abundance, founded from little XX bricks, you who are granted the most complex wisdom!
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	36-50	In the Abzu, the great crown of Eridug, where sanctuaries are apportioned, where elevated XX are apportioned -- when Enki, the great princely farmer of the awe-inspiring temple, the carpenter of Eridug, the master of purification rites, the lord of the great en priest's precinct, occupies E-engura, and when he builds up the Abzu of Eridug; when he takes counsel in Hal-an-kug, when he splits with an axe the house of boxwood; when the sage's hair is allowed to hang loose, when he opens the house of learning, when he stands in the street of the door of learning; when he finishes (?) the great dining hall of cedar, when he grasps the date-palm mace, when he strikes (?) the priestly garment with that mace, then he utters seven XX to Nisaba, the supreme nursemaid:
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	51-55	O Nisaba, good woman, fair woman, woman born
in the mountains

1 ms. has instead: by the mountains
! Nisaba, may you be the butter in the cattle-pen, may you be the cream in the sheepfold, may you be keeper of the seal in the treasury, may you be a good steward in the palace, may you be a heaper up of grain among the grain piles and in the grain stores!
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Old Babylonian	56-57	Because the Prince Enki cherished Nisaba, O Father Enki, it is sweet to praise you!
t.4.16.1	A hymn to Nisaba (Nisaba A)	Ur III	1-9	Lady coloured as the stars, holding a lapis-lazuli tablet! Nisaba, born by Uraš in the great sheepfold (?), XX nourished on good milk among holy alkaline plants, opening the mouth on seven XX reeds! Perfectly endowed with fifty great divine powers, my lady, the most powerful in E-kur! Aruru mother goddess of the Land, XX from the clay!
