id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		1-9	My king XX in his reed marshes. He XX in the silent (?) reed marshes. He extended his house over a huge reed marsh, over a XX reed marsh. Its XX is green (?); he has built XX by the water. He called his city the shrine Urim. In his city, the lord of the long days, Suen, founded a dwelling-place. In Urim, the city chosen in his heart, bull-like the house gives praise.
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		10-15	My king's splendid place is indeed an august place, a most precious place. Suen XX his beloved city, the shrine Urim, the pure divine powers XX his city. My king XX the holy dais. Lord Ašimbabbar XX.
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		16	Sa-gida.
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		17-21	O Nanna, Nanna, where have you tended your cows, Lord Ašimbabbar? In the chosen city, the shrine of my heart which I have founded in joy like Aratta XX. In my shrine Urim I have tended my cows. First-born son of Enlil, where have you tended the people, Lord Ašimbabbar?
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		22-40	In the chosen city, the shrine of my heart which I have founded in joy, like Aratta XX; in my E-mud-kura I have tended my cows. First-born son of Enlil, where have you tended the people, Lord Ašimbabbar? In a place founded on a good day and given a good name, in the place chosen in my heart, my E-mud-kura, I, Ašimbabbar, have tended my cows. First-born son of Enlil, where have you tended the people, Lord Ašimbabbar? In a place founded on a good day and given a good name, in the place chosen in my heart, my E-mud-kura, I, Ašimbabbar, have tended my cows. King of the holy cattle-pen, where have you tended your cows, youthful, noble shepherd? In the meadow where I have built a dais for my shrine Urim and have let date palms grow as in the land of Dilmun -- there in its holy reedbeds I have tended my cows. First-born son of Enlil, where have you tended the people, youthful, noble shepherd? In the meadow where I have built a dais for my shrine Urim and have let date palms grow as in the land of Dilmun -- there in its holy reedbeds I have tended my cows.
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		A-H	instead of lines 22-40, 1 ms. has: XX where have you tended your cows, youthful, noble shepherd? XX for my shrine Urim XX as in the land of Dilmun -- there in the house's cattle-pen I have tended my cows. King of the holy cattle-pen (?), where have you tended your cows, youthful, noble shepherd, Lord Ašimbabbar? In a place founded on a good day and given a good name, in the place chosen in my heart, E-kiš-nu-ŋal, the XX house, I, Ašimbabbar, have tended my cows (?).
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		41	Sa-ŋara.
t.4.13.09	A tigi to Suen (Nanna I)		42	A tigi of Suen.
