id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		1-9	It was in the days of abundance, it was in the nights of plenty; it was in the months of luxuriance, it was in the years of rejoicing. In those days the shepherd, the shepherd Dumuzid decided in his holy heart to make his heart joyful, to go to the cattle-pen, to brighten its mood, to make the holy sheepfold shine like the day. He of decision and resolve spoke to the queen of heaven, the queen of earth. Ama-ušumgal-ana addressed words to her:
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		10-14	Wife, I am going to bring flowing water to the arid (?) place. I am going to look after my spacious cattle-pen. I am going to find out the condition of the holy sheepfold. I am going to feed my sheep. I am going to seek out the XX of fresh water for drinking.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		15-20	He told his wife of this resolve; he presented his decision to her. His wife returned to their dwelling; holy Inana brought XX into E-tur-kalama. She was dumbfounded; the mistress Inana was thrown into confusion as if by a flood wave.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		21	1st kirugu.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		22-34	Then the shepherd went out into the desert. The young man Dumuzid XX in the cattle-pen. His sister, the queen of scribes, went to XX heaven and earth. The shepherd and his sister entered there into the holy sheepfold inside which the sheep live. He was living there, the shepherd was living there; and his sister, the singer expert in song, was living in that dwelling. Abundance filled the cattle-pen, plenty flowed in the sheepfold. They ate, they ate pure food -- pressed oil, honey and ghee. They drank emmer beer and strong liquor.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		35-41	Dumuzid, the shepherd Dumuzid decided in his holy heart to make the heart of his sister overflow with joy. He fastened XX and brought them into the cow-pen. He brought XX for her, a ewe with its lamb. The lamb jumped up on its mother, and then mounted her and copulated with her. The shepherd said to his sister:
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		42-46	Look, my sister! What is the lamb seeking from his mother? His sister replied to him: He is mounting on the back of his mother, and making her sing out. (Dumuzid speaks:) If he is mounting on her back, and making her sing out, what it really is XX: he is copulating with her and filling her to overflowing with his semen.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		47-56	The kid jumped up on his sister and then mounted her and copulated with her. The shepherd said to his sister: Look, my sister! What is the kid seeking from his sister? His sister, not grasping the meaning, replied to him: He is mounting on the back of his sister, and making her sing out. (Dumuzid speaks:) If he is mounting on her back, and making her sing out, what it really is: he is filling her genitals with his ejaculated semen. My brother, XX to me derisively XX mount! Who will cause XX to have XX in the future?
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		57	2nd kirugu.
t.4.08.28	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana B1)		58-59	The shepherd was not frightened (?), and did not XX. He said to his sister:
