id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		1-9	There is a city, there is a city whose powers are apparent. Niŋin is the city whose powers are apparent. The holy city is the city whose powers are apparent. The mountain rising from the water is the city whose powers are apparent. Its light rises over the secure temple; its fate is determined. There is perfection in the city; the rites of Mother Nanše are performed accordingly. Its lady, the child born in Eridug, Nanše, the lady of the precious divine powers, is now to return.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		10-19	She is beer mash (?), the mother is yeast (?), Nanše is the cause of great things: her presence makes the storehouses of the land  bulge  1 ms. has instead: prosper  and makes the honey XX like resin in the storerooms. Because of her, there stand vessels with ever-flowing water; because of Nanše, the baskets containing the treasures of the Land cover the ground like the silt of the river. She is the lady of XX.  Nanše is the lady who raises high the channels for the meadows and the irrigation ditches.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		20-31	She is concerned for the orphan and concerned for the widow. She does not forget the man who helps (?) others, she is a mother for the orphan; Nanše, a carer for the widow, who always finds advice for the debt-slave; the lady who gives protection for refugees. She seeks out a place for the weak. She swells his collecting basket for him; she makes his collecting vessel profitable for him. For the righteous maiden who has taken her path, Nanše chooses a young man of means. Nanše raises a secure house like a roof over the widow who could not remarry.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		32-46	There is perfection in the presence of the lady. Lagaš thrives in abundance in the presence of Nanše. She chose the šennu in her holy heart and seated Ur-Nanše, the beloved lord of Lagaš, on the throne. She gave the lofty sceptre to the shepherd. She adorned Gudea with all her precious divine powers. The shepherd chosen by her in her holy heart, Gudea, the ruler of Lagaš, placed the lyre (?) Cow-of-Abundance among the tigi drums and placed the holy balaŋ drum at its side. While sacred songs and harmonious songs were performed before her, the kintur instrument praised the temple. The chief musician played the ibex horn for her: the song 'The house has been granted powers from the abzu', the sacred song of the house of Sirara about the princely powers was performed.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		47-58	The dream interpreteter went into the sacristy and made glittering silver ešde cups ready for her. The temple cook XX, and prepared hot and cold food for her. He XX of the oven for her (?) and XX made the great shovel bellow for her. After the meat had arrived in large bowls and cool water had been brought from the Sirara-canal, after the festival trappings had arrived from Lagaš and wine had been brought from the countryside, her great oven which vies with the great dining hall, Nanše's shrine of food offerings, was humming.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		59-64	The lady, the matriarch of Enlil, Nanše, the lady of abundance who lives in the Land, the XX, the child of Enki, acting as a good woman for a good household, is to make the appointments. After she, as a good woman for a good household, has made the appointments, the regular offerings and daily goods of the house arrive unfailingly from the Bur-saŋ.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		65-75	If (?) the grain does not suffice for these rites and the vessels are empty and do not pour water, the person in charge of the regular offerings does not receive extra. After what was distributed from the foods and what was distributed from the drinks, after what was left over from the regular offerings and was not used by the house, after what was expended from the taxed fish, after what XX one iku of reedbeds XX, and after what was received in nuts and green plants from within the garden has entered (?), no mouth (?) may touch them. No one should carry the bread of the shrines in the district as bread allotment. XX prime beer, XX cool water.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		76-82	The preparation for the temple's permanent first-fruit festival should not stop. Let there be a butter carrier who delivers butter to the house, let there be a milk carrier who delivers milk to the house and let there be a fish courier, a person of daily assignment. After the firewood carrier has brought his delivery from the open country into his lady's house, it should be deposited in its corners and sides.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		83-91	He who confirms or contradicts what is uttered, who enters Nanše's house from outside (?), and does not leave it, the caretaker of Nanše's house, the child born to Utu, Lord Hendursaŋa XX. The king discriminates between the good and the evil deeds, Hendursaŋa discriminates between the good and the evil deeds. The XX which might be obstructed by evil he XX. XX incompletely preserved name of a goddess XX, the heroic child of youthful Suen, XX the evil utterances for Nanše.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		92-93	May the lady of the right commands and inalienable divine powers, Nanše, be praised in all the countries!
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		94-112	At new year, on the day of rites, the lady libates water on the holy XX. On the day when the bowls of rations are inspected, Nanše also inspects the servants during the appointments. Her chief scribe Nisaba places the precious tablets on her knees and takes a golden stylus in her hand. She arranges the servants in single file for Nanše and then it will be decided whether or not a leather-clad servant can enter before her in his leather, whether or not a linen-clad servant can pass before her in his linen. Any registered and XX hired (?) person about whom observers (?) and witnesses claim to witness his fleeing from the house will be terminated in his position XX. The king who always cares for the faithful servants, Haia, the man in charge of registration, registers on a tablet him who is said to be a faithful servant of his lady but deletes from the tablet her who is said not to be the maidservant of her lady.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		113-129	If the vessels pour no water, the roads are not in order, the dough trough is not kept clean, the fire is XX in the house during (?) the night-time, the incantations are XX in the house during (?) the day-time, then the šita-eša priest serving his term will be terminated from his office. For a susbu priest who serves his term administering food allotments and against whom a complaint has been lodged and for a saŋŋa priest who while living in the house did not make her holy songs and thoughts manifest (?), XX further rations are denied and thereby Mother Nanše's ordinances will become apparent. These words are ultimate; nothing is to be added to these rites. No one should XX other powers to these powers. Since not even one XX, no XX enters Nanše's house.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		130-136	At Nanše's house, the river of the ordeal cleanses a person. After the oracular messages and (?) the holy songs have come out of XX of the abzu, XX the songs, and the enkum and ninkum priests choose (?) the purification rites. No XX or XX are to be added its words. No obstinate or threatening utterance shall arise.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		137-153	Anyone who XX his hand and reaches out (?) for something forcefully (?), and whose hand matches (?) his mouth and who commits violence, who changes a firm foundation or alters a marked out border, who is rushing (?) to the place of oath,  who XX a small weight in place (?) of a large weight, and XX a small ban measure in place (?) of a large ban measure, who desire something after having acquired something, who does not say I have eaten after having eaten, and does not say I have drunk after having drunk, and then says, I will set a bowl before you, I will filter beer for you; a maidservant of a god who XX and XX from the house, an untrustworthy person who XX while living in the house; if anyone says Serve (?) me, I want to eat, or says Serve (?) me, I want to drink, then Nanše does not allow him to eat any bread with fat or shining eggs, because of the violation (?).
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		154-162	If the violent person was allowed to eat XX, with (?) XX eyes, grinding his teeth and shuffling his feet, he does not XX and does not XX. The powerful one who XX, the rich one who XX on the street, the married one who XX his wife for (?) the widow, who laughed one day in his rage, who makes fun of his calamity another day -- this person does not raise his XX for (?) the lady.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		163-174	For the lady who cares for all the countries, the queen, Mother Nanše, sees into their hearts: the orphan who XX, the widow who XX, the waif delivered up to the powerful, the powerful delivered to the powerless, the mother who scolds at her child, the child who talks obstinately to his mother, the younger brother who talks against his elder brother or talks back to his father. The lady, who XX, Nanše, who XX, Nanše sees into the heart of the Land as if it were a split reed.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		175-180	Her herald Lord Hendursaŋa XX. Her protecting genius Dumu-tur-šugi does not XX, her guardian placed XX, guarding XX. Nanše XX her house in Sirara sprinkled with water, her house XX during (?) the night-time.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		181-192	He who extends his staff of office, the one respected within the abzu, the lord who has no opposition in the terraced tower (?) of Nanše's house, the king, Lord Hendursaŋa, promulgates the decrees of Nanše's house. They are heavy smoke settling on the ground; the commands of the house are thick clouds covering the sky as if they were joined together with the needle of matrimony, yet the king, Lord Hendursaŋa, tears them apart. He can discriminate between the just and the wicked, and he can bring justice to the orphan as well as to the widow.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		193-211	He decides justly any lawsuits between mother and child: if the mother has given to the child what she had to eat, has given to it what she had to drink, has XX,  and his mother XX the firewood carrier's delivery from the open country, and yet the child does not speak to the mother who bore him in the great city with black looks (?) or in anger; and if the mother ordered her child to the place where the offence happened and the mother struck him at his XX, but nevertheless she has given him suck from her milk-filled breast,  then, after the king who loves justice, Hendursaŋa, has evaluated their testimonies and examined the case, he will place the blame on the mother of the child so that she will not be able to bear the weight of heavy blame, and there will be no god such a person could pray to.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		212-221	If the mother has not given to the child what she had to eat, has not given to it what she had to drink, has not XX  and his mother XX the firewood carrier's delivery from the open country, and the child speaks to the mother who bore him in the great city with black looks (?) and in anger, then the king who hates violence, Hendursaŋa, will treat such a person like water in a filthy place, and will reject that child for her sake as grain is rejected by acid soil. XX the words of his own mother XX.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		223-231	The guarantor of boundaries, the expert in (?) righteous words, lady, wise woman who founded Lagaš XX with Ŋatumdug. XX righteous words for (?) Nanše. The exalted lady whose commands are XX, the lady who like Enlil determines fates, who is seated on the throne of Sirara -- she, the pure one, looks at her powers.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		232-240	At the house which has been granted powers from the abzu, in Sirara, the gods of Lagaš gather around her. To weigh silver with standard weights, to standardise the size of reed baskets, they establish an agreed ban measure throughout the countries. The shepherd, the expert of the Land, the wise one (?) of the countries, Ištaran, who decides lawsuits justly, who lives in the Land XX Ninŋišzida XX.
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		241-250	To weigh silver with standard weights, to standardise the size of reed baskets, they establish an agreed ban measure throughout the countries. XX of (?) all the great rites.  After XX in (?) the established storerooms, the lady of the storerooms XX her lofty XX with (?) vessels with ever-flowing water and with (?) XX of (?) reed containers which never become empty, she ordered her herald, Lord Hendursaŋa to make them profitable (?).
t.4.14.1	A hymn to Nanše (Nanše A)		251-255	My lady, your divine powers are mighty powers, surpassing all other divine powers; Nanše, there are no divine powers matching your powers. An, the king, looks joyfully at you, as you sit with Enlil on the throne-dais where the fates are to be determined. Father Enki determined a fate for you. Nanše, child born in Eridug, sweet is your praise.
