id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		A1-15	When I XX as I travel by boat, when I XX as I travel by boat, when I, the queen, journey to the abzu, when I enter the house of Enlil, I am indeed the queen who is pre-eminent in the mountains. When I stand before the face of Enlil, I am indeed the emanating light. When I stand in the mouth of the battle, I am indeed also the foremost one of all lands. When I stand in the thick of the battle, I am indeed also the very guts of battle, the heroic strength. When I walk about at the rear of the battle, I am indeed also the flood bearing XX. When I take my stand behind the battle, I am the woman who comes (?).
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		A16-22	When I sit in the alehouse, I am a woman, and I am an exuberant young man. When I am present at a place of quarrelling, I am a woman, a figurine brought to life. When I sit by the gate of the tavern, I am a prostitute familiar with the penis; the friend of a man, the girlfriend of a woman.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		A23-34	I am milk of the god. I am pre-eminent in the mountains. I am the milk of the god, of Dumuzid. I am pre-eminent in the mountains. The mountains in my hands, the mountains at my feet, Elam in my hands; I have a pointed dagger in my belt. The gods are small birds, and I am the falcon. The Anuna gods butt each other, but I am the wild cow. I am the grandiloquent daughter of Enlil. I am the formidable one of my father Suen. I am the queen created by Nudimmud. My eye XX. My eye XX.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B1-7	The life of the lord XX. The life of the king XX. Filling throat and heart XX. The city which is restored XX. The beauteous countenance XX. A foot placed on the earth XX. On its full lips XX.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B8-9	Let the dripping (?) waters XX. The ferry boat, a prayer, a prayer, XX man XX.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B10-19	Imbued (?) with my awesomeness! Imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The life of the lord, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The life of the king, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! Filling throat and heart, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The marsh reeds of Kuara, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The most beautiful marsh reeds, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The city which is restored, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! The beauteous countenance, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! A foot placed on the earth, imbued (?) with my awesomeness! On its full lips, imbued (?) with my awesomeness!
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B20-21	Let the dripping (?) waters XX. The ferry boat, a prayer, a prayer, XX man XX.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B22-29	We shall go! We shall go! We shall go in supplication! We shall go for the supplication of the lord! We shall go for the supplication of the king! Those of the supplication of the corner XX at the corner. Those of the supplication of the side XX at the side. Mother Inana of heaven XX with beauty. The Mistress XX with beauty in the shrine.
t.4.07.9	A šir-namšub to Inana (Inana I)		B30	A šir-namšub of Inana.
