id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		A1-8	While I, the lady, was passing the day yesterday, while I, Inana, was passing the day yesterday, while I was passing the day, while I was dancing, while I was singing songs all day until evening, he met me, he met me. The lord, the friend of An, met me; the lord took me in his hands, Ušumgal-ana embraced me about my neck.
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		A9-12	XX, let me go, so that I can go to our house! Friend of Enlil, let me go, so that I can go to our house! What lie can I offer to my mother? What lie can I offer to my mother Ningal?
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		A13-22	Let me teach you, let me teach you! Inana, let me teach you the lies of women: My girlfriend was dancing with me in the square. She ran around playfully with me, banging the drum. She sang her sweet songs for me. I passed the day there with her in pleasure and delight. Offer this as a lie to your own mother. As for us -- let me make love with you by moonlight! Let me loosen your hairgrip on the holy and luxuriant couch. May you pass a sweet day there with me in voluptuous pleasure.
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		A23	Sa-gida.
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		A24-26	I the maiden, in the streets and alleys, XX, by day I XX with you,
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		B1-12	There he is, standing at our mother's gate, while I am rushing around in excitement. There he is standing at Ningal's gate, while I am rushing around in excitement. Oh that someone would tell my mother! May our neighbour come to sprinkle water on the floor! Oh that someone would tell my mother Ningal! May our neighbour come to sprinkle water on the floor: the fragrance of her dwelling is pleasant, and her words are delightful.
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		B13-20	My lord is perfect for the holy embrace. Ama-ušumgal-ana, the son-in-law of Suen, Lord Dumuzid, is perfect for the holy embrace. Ama-ušumgal-ana, son-in-law of Suen, my lord: how pleasing is your lavishness, and how sweet-tasting are your green plants from the plain! Ama-ušumgal-ana, how pleasing is your lavishness, and how sweet-tasting are your green plants from the plain!
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		B21	Sa-ŋara.
t.4.08.08	A tigi to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana H)		B22	A tigi of Inana.
