id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		1-8	Hero, majestic, awe-inspiring son of Enlil, battering like a storm and roaring against the rebel lands! Immense at his front, at his rear surging as a flood, after he XX, XX this place; Lord Mešlamta-ea inspiring terrifying awe, his XX not releasing the hostile land, his luxuriant horn XX in the Land, struck XX with weapons.
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		9-12	XX, sired by Enlil, great XX, XX flood XX; he has placed you XX, he has positioned you in your heroic strength.
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		13-16	Raising his head, authoritative with a ringing voice, knowing the divine powers of the gods, XX of the Land, he travels through heaven and organises everything.
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		17-27	When XX you command the storm which flattens the hostile land, you devastate its evil; you pour it over for as long as it disobeys. You are the great hero of the lands, you speak XX, you go XX where no foot has previously been placed. XX like a vessel with seven spouts. The black-headed gather together at the front. You outpace the pigeons with XX. You outpace the black and white swallows (?).
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		28-35	XX in the hushed streets, your XX awesomeness covers the city. The majestic and just crown XX your awesomeness. The XX is a south wind that none can withstand. At the place of the queen, the most precious place, you exercise the role of supreme deity! Directing a noble gaze, you exercise kingship in the Land! For his father he has led the people from afar. He, Nergal, has brought them to the XX of the nether world.
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		36-49	Then Erra welcomed his king: They have come! You surpass An! Perform the stewardship for An the king! In accordance with destiny you determine fates with him, Nergal! Ninšubur, the minister of the great place, the underworld, greeted Nergal: You are the lord who has made the bandits come forth (?) from the mountains. As with Enlil XX, no part of a foreign land escapes your grasp. Hero, for Enlil you piled up Enlil's enemies (?) in a single day. Hating XX, Nergal, XX as fire, you rise up in the lands where the sun rises. The Anuna gods stepped forward: Like XX cracks XX, XX, you are Nergal!
t.4.15.2	A hymn to Nergal (Nergal B)		50-57	
XX son of Enlil XX, Lugal-era. Praising you is sweet.
