id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		1-7	Whoever has eaten good bread has also drunk good beer, in the house where the righteous man has filled the bowls with liquor -- the lord of the storehouse, the Great Mountain Enlil; the lady of the storehouse, the great mother Ninlil; youthful Utu, lord of the mountain; Šerida, youthful leader of battle; the Enki and Ninki deities; Enmul and Ninmul.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		8	1st kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		9-18	Unto distant days, indeed forever, stand by the righteous man who gives you bread, O exalted one, O exalted one, O exalted one -- elalu! Unto distant days, indeed forever, stand by the most righteous of men who gives you bread, O lord of the storehouse, Great Mountain Enlil! O lady of the storehouse, great mother Ninlil! O youthful Utu, lord of the mountain! O Šerida, youthful leader of battle! O exalted one, O exalted one, O exalted one -- elalu!
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		19-23	May the righteous man have a long life, indeed forever! May the most righteous of men have a long life, indeed forever! Stand by him, O exalted one, O exalted one, O exalted one -- elalu!
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		24	2nd kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		25-33	Auamma! -- in the house -- ulili! Alliliamma! -- in the house -- ulili! Pour out beer for him, pour out liquor for him, O minister, pour out liquor for your lord, O Nuska, pour out liquor for Enlil! Beer has now been poured out: let me give you this beer to drink. Liquor has now been poured out: let me give you this liquor to refresh yourself. O lord, eat and drink! May it be acceptable (?) to you! O Enlil, eat and drink! May it be acceptable (?) to you!
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		34-40	As you eat, flax comes into being, grain comes into being. As you drink, early floods come into being in the rivers. As you eat, mottled grain comes into being in the fields. Accept what the righteous man has brought to you! Accept the flour that the most righteous man has brought to you! He has paid homage to you. He says to you Eat, he says to you Drink.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		41	3rd kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		42-50	The beer for the bur-gia offerings has been filled to overflowing. Among the offerings of the house, at the place where the huge bowls have been stood under the heavens, where bread has been offered by pure hands, at the house where the righteous man has offered prayers, where the most righteous of men has offered prayers, where the god of the man has offered prayers, where Lord Enki has offered prayers, there the righteous man has filled to overflowing the beer for the bur-gia offerings.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		51-58	The righteous man, the most righteous of men, has filled them to overflowing. O lord of the storehouse, Great Mountain Enlil, he has filled them to overflowing. O lady of the storehouse, great mother Ninlil, he has filled them to overflowing. The most righteous of men has XX the bowls with your beer. May this bronze vessel increase his long life. When Nibru had been fully built, when XX had been XX, when the brickwork of this house had been XX, the living spouse XX, the seed of the house, the seed XX.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		59	4th kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		60-66	Gaze upon him, gaze upon him! O Utu, gaze upon him, gaze upon him! O wild bull of the E-babbar, gaze upon him, gaze upon him! O bearded one, son born to Ningal, XX, gaze upon him! When you gaze upon the bulls in the cattle-pen, bulls fill the cattle-pen. When you gaze upon the sheep in the fold, sheep fill the fold. When you have gazed upon the man, XX.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		67	5th kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		68-73	For you, I will clear away from the malt the droppings of the little birds. For you, I will clear away from the grain the droppings of the rodents. For you, I will clear away from the grain ears the beaks of the locusts. May the lord eat this produce -- he has eaten XX. May the hero, youthful Utu, drink -- he has drunk XX. May youthful Utu XX -- he will give it to me to eat; may he XX -- he will give it to me to drink.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		74	6th kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		75-79	The beer XX your seat in the brewery. Over your brewing vats XX. The good minister XX the gala priest. The minister of the good house XX. Youthful Utu XX.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		80	7th kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		81-84	When the heart XX, the precious seed XX. The holy offerings XX. Youthful Utu XX.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		85	8th kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		86-110	Ulili XX! Enlil XX.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		111	XX kirugu.
t.4.32.e	A šir-namšub to Utu (Utu E)		x	This composition is inscribed on a tablet whose colophon specifies it as a šir-namšub of Utu
