id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		1-6	If it were not for our mother, he would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert! If it were not for our mother, this young man would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert! If it were not for my mother Ningal, he would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert! If it were not for Ningikuga, he would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert! If it were not for Father Suen, he would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert! If it were not for my brother Utu, he would be chasing me along the dark (?) paths of the desert!
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		7-22	Young woman, don't provoke a quarrel! Inana, let us talk it over! Inana, don't provoke a quarrel! Ninegala, let us discuss it together! My father is just as good as your father; Inana, let us talk it over! My mother is just as good as your mother; Ninegala, let us discuss it together! Ŋeštin-ana is just as good as XX; Inana, let us talk it over! I am just as good as Utu; Ninegala, let us discuss it together! Enki is just as good as Suen; Inana, let us talk it over! Durtur is just as good as Ningal; Ninegala, let us discuss it together!
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		23-24	The words they speak are words towards desire; provoking a quarrel is the desire of his heart!
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		25-30	He of the šuba jewels, he of the šuba jewels is indeed ploughing with the šuba jewels! Ama-ušumgal-ana, he of the šuba jewels, is indeed ploughing with the šuba jewels! He lays down like seeds the little jewels among his jewels. He piles up (?) like grain piles the large jewels among his jewels. He will carry them to the roof for his XX who is leaning towards him from the roof; he will carry them to the wall for Inana who is leaning towards him from the wall.
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		31-35	XX calls out to Ama-ušumgal-ana: Ploughing with the jewels, ploughing with the jewels, for whom is he ploughing? Ama-ušumgal-ana, ploughing with the jewels, for whom is he ploughing? May the little jewels among his jewels be on our throat! May the large jewels among his jewels be on our holy breast!
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		36-40	Ama-ušumgal-ana answers the mistress: It is for the mistress, it is for my spouse the mistress -- I am ploughing with them for her! For holy Inana, the priestess -- I am ploughing with them for her! He of the šuba jewels, he of the šuba jewels will indeed plough with the šuba jewels! Ama-ušumgal-ana, he of the šuba jewels, will indeed plough with the šuba jewels!
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		41-45	Ploughing with the jewels, ploughing with the jewels, for whom is he ploughing? Ama-ušumgal-ana, ploughing with the jewels, for whom is he ploughing? The beard of the one whom he will create for me, the one whom he will create for me, is of lapis-lazuli, the beard of the XX whom An will create for me is lapis-lazuli, the beard of the XX is of lapis-lazuli, his beard is of lapis-lazuli.
t.4.08.09	A kunŋar to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana I)		46	A kunŋar of Inana.
