id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		1-41	
XX. XX, lordly son of Enlil, XX. XX, hero who appears in glory, who XX. XX in Enlil's house XX. XX no one XX. XX of E-kur, the rebel lands XX. XX, lord XX. XX, captain, XX. XX king of Urim, XX. XX, king of Adab XX. XX, king of XX. XX E-kur XX.

XX of Ninlil XX. XX to the XX of Enlil XX. XX heaven and earth, the mother who bore XX. XX Enlil XX. XX of the hero XX.

XX Zababa XX. XX hero XX.

t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		42-48	XX favourable before Ninurta, the great governor of Enlil, and Ninnibru, the beloved child of An.

May XX the beloved spouse, Ninnibru, the great queen, be favourable towards you.
t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		49-57	Ninurta, lord of the gods, glory of E-šu-me-ša, speaks most generously in praise: My father Enlil! Ninurta XX himself like a lion: I am the hero belonging to Enlil, I am he who controls the affairs of Nibru. XX, and do not let the birds escape. I am a man after the heart of my father Enlil, and I am the hero beloved by my mother Ninlil. I was born in the mountains; I am strong in the mountains.
t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		58-63	Ninurta, before whose roaring the mountains tremble, hurricane, south storm that flashes with lightning, you belong to Enlil! May it therefore XX, may Ninurta's city, the shrine Nibru -- therefore XX. He is indeed its beloved, is indeed its beloved; the lord is indeed the beloved of E-kur.
t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		64-75	You desire everything in your heart, you wish for everything valuable in your heart. Hero, Enlil's right arm, youth without rival! Ninurta, Enlil's right arm, youth without rival, grandly heaping up XX with the fifty-headed XX, letting no enemies escape from the mountains! Wild raging lion, overpowering the enemy, Ninurta, wild raging lion, overpowering the enemy -- who like a foul moving storm XX the rebel lands and territories! Hero, first choice of his father, Lord Ninurta, first choice of his father! He is the hero, he is the hero, the hero who does not let the mountains escape! He (?) is the hero! He is Ninurta who does not let the mountains escape!
t.4.27.03	A hymn to Ninurta (Ninurta C)		76-86	He is great in his anger (?)! He (?) alone is a hero! No superior god raises himself against him! King who is great in heaven, great on earth, lordly in the east! Ninurta who is great in heaven, great on earth, lordly in the east! Mighty hero Ninurta! Praise be to Father Enlil! Praise be to the XX of intelligence, the lord who decides destinies, to Father Enki! XX Anuna gods XX, favourable before Ninurta, the great governor of Enlil, and Ninnibru, the beloved child of An.
