id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		1-16	King, your headdress hangs loose upon your neck, your kingship is gloriously manifest! Hero Ninurta, your headress hangs loose upon your neck! Hero Pabilsaŋ, your headress hangs loose upon your neck! Hero Ninŋirsu, your headdress hangs loose upon your neck; your kingship is manifest! Your kingship exists in the heavens, exists on the earth. You sit with Enki upon the holy throne-dais.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		17-37	The hero, devastator of the mountains, pillager of cities, batters at the rebel lands. The hero Ninurta, devastator of the mountains, pillager of cities, the hero Pabilsaŋ, devastator of the mountains, pillager of cities, the hero Ninŋirsu, devastator of the mountains, pillager of cities, batters at the rebel lands. A king, a storm beating down from above: you are an unrivalled lord. Hero, you are the towering wall of your city; may your august name be invoked! Hero Ninurta, you are the towering wall of your city. Hero Pabilsaŋ, you are the towering wall of your city. Hero Ninŋirsu, you are the towering wall of your city; may your august name be invoked!
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		38-57	Since the day it was so decreed, your donkey-foals have XX gardens and meš trees. Šakkan, the lord of donkeys, has positioned them at your feet. Hero, your awesomeness is spread over the mountains; your grandeur covers all foreign lands. Hero Ninurta, your awesomeness is spread over the mountains. Hero Pabilsaŋ, your awesomeness is spread over the mountains. Hero Ninŋirsu, your awesomeness is spread over the mountains; your grandeur covers all foreign lands. Since the day it was so decreed, your donkey-foals XX gardens and meš trees. Šakkan, the lord of donkeys, has positioned them at your feet.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		58-75	You have taken your place upon the throne-dais of Nibru, where you sit with Father Enlil. You are the heroic son of Father Enlil. He made you stand in service in E-kur. You have taken your place upon the throne-dais of Lagaš. Speak to holy Mother Nanše, so she will cast her protecting arms over you like Utu! May she indicate your station for you! May she who has no fear of your splendour embrace your limbs! May my lady of the beneficent divine powers, with the ornaments of šuba stone about her neck, XX
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		76-87	The hero is most precious; his word is august. He is the sun of the Land; the discloser of great counsel in E-ama-lamma. Ninurta is most precious. Pabilsaŋ is most precious. Ninŋirsu is most precious; his word is august. He is the sun of the Land; the discloser of great counsel in E-ama-lamma.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		88-101	Hero, on the battlefield the cities of the foreign lands have dedicated (?) a house to you: E-ama-lamma, a house of sanctuary (?). Ninurta, a house of sanctuary (?), Pabilsaŋ, a house of sanctuary (?), Ninŋirsu, on the battlefield the cities of the foreign lands have dedicated (?) a house to you: E-ama-lamma, a house of sanctuary (?). It is a most distant forest whose edges are widespread (?). Its extent is indeed with the king, E-ama-lamma. It is a forest, a most distant boat moored on the mountains.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		102-110	If someone diminishes its borders, that man cuts off the house of his father at its borders, E-ama-lamma. If someone, though a stranger to his father, diminishes its borders, that man cuts off the house of his father at its borders, E-ama-lamma.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		111	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		112-133	The hero is a powerful force; may his storm leave no rain behind! The hero Ninurta is a powerful force. The hero Pabilsaŋ is a powerful force. The hero Ninŋirsu is a powerful force; may his storm leave no rain behind! My king is the pillager of cities for his father. O his valour! The hero Ninurta is the pillager of cities for his father. The hero Pabilsaŋ is the pillager of cities for his father. The hero Ninŋirsu is the pillager of cities for his father. O his valour! My king, XX the mountains, you XX. Hero Ninurta, before you the land swells (?) as if XX.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		134-164	My king, you covered the edge of the sea with rays of light. On that day from the gold (?) of Harali you are Ena-tum. From the cornelian and lapis lazuli of the land of Meluha you are Ena-tum. From the dušia stone of the land of Marhaši you are Enakam. From the silver of fifteen cities you are Enakam. From the copper and tin of Magan you are Enakam. From the bronze of XX you are Enakam (?). From the silver of Dilmun you are Ena-tum. From the im-kalaga clay of the mouth of the hills you are Enakam. From the gypsum of the shining hills you are Enakam.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		165-171	House of the rebel lands! Ah you! You! Ah me! Me! House of the rebel lands, when will your clay return to its abzu? House of the rebel lands, when will your reeds return to their reedbeds? House of the rebel lands, when will your beams return to their forests?
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		172-183	The enemy XX on the wall, and pays homage. My king, if only he knew your outstanding strength! Hero Ninurta, if only he knew your mighty awesomeness! If only he knew your devouring of men like a lion! If only he knew your XX like a dragon! If only he knew your XX kid and lamb like a lion!
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		184	Its kišu.
t.4.27.07	A šir-namšub to Ninurta (Ninurta G)		185-186	A šir-namšuba of Ninurta.
