id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		1-8	Great light, heavenly lioness, always speaking words of assent! Inana, great light, lioness of heaven, who always speaks words of assent! Ninegala! As you rise in the morning sky like a flame visible from afar, and at your bright appearance in the evening sky, the shepherd i.e. the king entrusts (?) the flocks of Sumer to you. Celestial sign, XX glory of heaven! All the countries are building a house for you as for the risen sun; a shining (?) torch is assigned to you, the light of the Land.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		9-10	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		11-19	When bright XX had raised its head in the Land, and when you live XX with XX, the young woman XX the hero for you, she has grasped XX for you. XX has brought the numerous XX to you. They raise XX to your XX; kids XX are ordered, and your Egal-edina, the place of calm, has been arranged for you. You are the good woman who appears radiantly throughout the Land.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		20-21	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		22-36	After the first watch of the night has passed, as like a shepherd you get up from the grass, you seize your battle-mace like a warrior, you fasten the guma cloth on your arms, and you bind on your indefatigable strength. Thus you appear brilliantly, together with An, in the city probably Unug. On earth, Inana, you emit awe-inspiring splendour from the holy dais. Your feet are placed on seven dogs, your seat is set upon a lion and a leopard. Cattle and sheep are brought to you for inspection. Lulal stands by your feet, bearing in battle the pitiless (?) mace. Beside them the cultic attendants stand at your service, lined up for you beside the dogs. They have taken over the temple Gu-ena-ida, to provide for you.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		37-38	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		39-43	The XX dog (?) has brought the sheep close to you; the powerful dog (?) has XX a wild bull XX in its paws,  the lion, the warrior XX.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		44-56	Inana, in heaven you are lightning, on earth you move swiftly XX against the foreign land that you are angry with, XX. When in your precinct and shrine the Ibgal you regulate the divine ordinances like the divine powers of An, when you regulate the heavenly ordinances like the divine powers of Enki and cause awe of you to reach up to the heavens, then your seat is on the XX dais on the terrace by your Gate of Four Faces. Inana, you go into the interior of heaven like your father Suen; Ninegala, you appear like moonlight in your shrine the Ibgal, placing your foot on your ordinances, and dividing them among the XX dogs (?).
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		56-57	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		58-65	When you slip through where brambles and foul great thorns grow, when you stride along all the mountains, when you drink from puddles with the dogs, when you share the stall with the horses, when with the storm you reduce everything to a mere shadow, Inana, when you cause the rain to fall all day long, then your seat is in your E-kug-nuna at Eridug, on the dais where destinies are determined.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		66-76	At the New Year, at the festival of Dumuzid, your spouse Ama-ušumgal-ana, Lord Dumuzid, steps forward to you. XX of weeping are brought to you, Inana, as offerings. The tubes of the underworld are opened for you, and memorial libations are poured down them for you. The en priests, the lumah priests and the nindiŋir priestesses, and the dead luzid and amalu, eat meals for you, to keep away the ghosts, and drink water for you, to keep away the ghosts. Your holy dais is set up beside them.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		77-78	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		79-87	Inana, when you give judgment with An and Enlil; Ninegala, when you decide destinies on earth with Enki, when you shimmer (?), when you XX to a mere shadow, when you come forth from the corner, when you come forth from the side, when you are to be seen on the horizon, Inana, when in your destructiveness you make storm-floods wash over everything, then the great en priests XX, then the igi-dua priestesses wear the tonsure for you, then your seat is on your Dais of Silence.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		88-92	The young men fastened in neck-stocks XX before you, the mother of the sick lays her child in your arms, the mother of the uprooted (?) XX in your great hall. You cut the XX of the weak, you release (?) XX the weak.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		93-94	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		95-106	When you act as a shepherd with the herdsman, when XX with the cowherd you throw the halters on the cows, when you mix the butter, when you purify the milk, when you find joy in the embrace of your spouse Dumuzid, when you have pleasure in the embrace of your spouse Dumuzid, when you take your seat on the high dais in the great hall in your Kura-igi-ŋal where judgment is passed, then the people of the holy uzga stand there at your service.  They cannot compete with you, Inana. As a prostitute you go down to the tavern and, like (?) a ghost who slips in through the window, you enter there.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		107-108	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		109-115	When the servants let the flocks loose, and when cattle and sheep are returned to cow-pen and sheepfold, then, my lady, like the nameless poor, you wear only a single garment. The pearls of a prostitute are placed around your neck, and you are likely to snatch a man from the tavern. As you hasten to the embrace of your spouse Dumuzid, Inana, then the seven paranymphs share the bedchamber with you.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		116-117	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		118-125	In the evening, when the stars return together again and when Utu enters into his chamber, when in heaven, Inana, you diffuse awesomeness like fire, and when on earth, Ninegala, you screech like a falcon, then you XX in play and dancing.  You go from moonlight to star, you go from star to moonlight.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		126-127	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		128-143	The slavegirl XX her mistress. XX her house and property. XX her child.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		144-145	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		146-158	XX you are the great goddess.  The levy of troops is brought into the broad square like a crouching dragon. The young woman abandons the E-mah, destroying the temple like my XX. The young man who has come to know your eminence makes a gesture of obeisance.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		159-160	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		161-190	XX has presented (?) XX to you there. Your position XX. If XX beside the Egal-edina, then the evil demons and demonesses oppose it.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		191-192	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		193-204	Inana, you are an object of admiration, like a charming young maiden. XX has been opened for you. Mistress, your XX priestess hangs the šuba jewels on you. The great XX, responsible for the ordinances,  You enter house after house, you peer into lane after lane. Lady, when XX, when your emblem is displayed, maiden, when you stand in XX, you are covered in loveliness. Who XX finds XX in the sheepfold, XX, XX prayer XX.
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		205-206	Inana, you are the lady of all the divine powers, and no deity can compete with you. Here is your dwelling, Ninegala; let me tell of your grandeur!
t.4.07.4	A hymn to Inana as Ninegala (Inana D)		207-217	Inana, you are the lady of the great divine powers. Your mother Ningal XX great attributes. Your father Suen XX great holy cows. Your brother, the youth Utu XX. Your spouse Ama-ušumgal-ana, the shepherd, Lord Dumuzid, XX. Your beloved minister (?) Ninšubur XX. Your beloved sister-in-law Ŋeštin-ana XX.
