id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	1-9	Hero, who shines forth like moonlight over the upper city! Hero Šul-pa-e, who shines forth like moonlight over the upper city! Eminent and famous Šul-pa-e, who shines forth like moonlight over the upper city! Lord of great divine powers, god who appears in glory, Šul-pa-e, of great divine powers, god who appears in glory, lordly in battle, who makes vegetation grow tall in the Land! Lord who raises his great arms, battle-club that smashes all enemies! Pre-eminent brother-in-law of Father Enlil, good youth! Enlil has named your august name.
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	10-18	Lordly with weapons in the thick of battle! Owner of the rebel lands, lordly in the rebel lands, my king, you are an august god! You are an august god, and your wife is an august queen. You are beloved by Ninhursaŋa. You are a hero before whom the gods are very fearful. Hero Šul-pa-e, lordly in heaven and on earth, my XX, may your name be truly called upon in all the foreign lands! My king, may your greatness be truly called upon in all the foreign lands!
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	19-30	August XX, rising flood, storm which approaches mankind! People tremble (?) in prayer before you like frightened birds. Rising XX, imbued with awesomeness, no one XX you. Of terrifying appearance, endowed with fearsome splendour, you are imbued with great awesomeness. You are a hurricane that approaches mankind, a great XX that sweeps men down, XX that XX mankind! In the mountains you measure the fields like a XX. XX emitted from heaven, without compare, XX, who brings daylight to the mountains, XX, battering XX, XX, who flashes like lightning.
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	31-40	Falling upon mankind like a XX bird of grief, a namtar demon with no hands or feet, suited (?) to the night, prowling at night like a namtar demon, XX, shaped like a XX -- you, hero Šul-pa-e, are the lord of orchards and gardens, plantations and green reedbeds, of the quadrupeds of the wide high desert, of the animals, the living creatures of the plains. An, king of the gods, has put them in your hands; he has put them in your hands, and you are their lord. Hero Šul-pa-e, they cannot escape your clutches.
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	41-48	It is his food that anyone who has food eats; it is his water that anyone who has water drinks. And so people no longer call upon the name of their personal gods, but XX in every mouth the name of him who is their only god. The hand XX of his god XX. He does not XX the hand, he does not XX the mouth. He takes away XX. XX, he gives you your XX.
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	49-61	You are the throne-bearer of An and Enlil, the fierce constable of the gods, and the table-steward of Enlil. You do not XX these people what you have placed. He brings (?) to you XX. XX that he has handed you. XX, after you have XX from above; the heavy XX cover XX like a garment. XX, after XX has said XX, XX, he addresses a prayer to you. After he has declared his XX of lament to you, he calls (?) to you like a XX of a boat in an inundation, and raises XX to you.
t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	A	62-85	You make him shine like gold, and polish him like bronze, then you restore him to the benign hands of his god. XX shining, and lifts his head proudly. XX appears gloriously in the Land.

XX, you release XX for your beloved. XX, you place XX for your little ones. XX, you release XX for your little ones. XX, you release XX for your great ones.

XX on the fifteenth day.

You are the merciful king of the foreign lands XX, looking mercifully XX.

t.4.31.1	A hymn to Šul-pa-e (Šul-pa-e A)	B	1-8	
XX. like Šul-pa-e. My king XX may he call your name.
