id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		A1-10	O eastern (?) house of Sumer, I will declare your greatness! O E-kiš-nu-ŋal, whose purification rites are brilliant, O house of Nanna! O shrine Urim, I shall glorify your name. Emerging from the holy heart of the pure hills, Urim, wisdom of An and Uraš, appropriate for E-temen-ni-guru! With An you bestow kingship; your majesty XX the foreign lands. I shall glorify your name far and wide!
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		A11-22	He keeps in order the lordly purification rites XX. He has taken his seat XX in Urim. Your name is sweet! The Prince XX. Your holy word is pleasing to An. May my En-hedu-ana excel even An. XX the purification rites of the ŋipar. XX the lordly divine powers. XX the excellent ŋipar. Ašimbabbar XX.
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		A23-42	XX holy songs XX. The Prince XX. XX wisdom XX. XX the great divine powers. An and Enlil XX. Ningal XX May he excel XX. Aš-im-babbar XX. Like the sweet moonlight XX. XX the ŋipar, my delight, XX. An and Enlil XX. Mother Ningal XX charm XX. The high priestess of the moon god XX. En-hedu-ana XX. My king XX. XX the great divine powers XX. XX holy songs, light XX  En-hedu-ana XX
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		B1-10	XX who is familiar with your purification rites, XX, may he do XX. XX shall build for you in the pure abode (?) XX. XX shall not enter XX. He shall grind your barley for you in the pure cloister. Your milled grain is not laid in his hall. Water shall not touch what you have ground, and your malt shall not be turned over. O palace of Suen, what do men know of you?
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		B11-17	To bring offerings in baskets, to cause rejoicing, to make the house comfortable, to establish the house, to put in order the place of the holy purification rites -- may Ningal, my En-hedu-ana, restore your XX. XX Nanna, I shall praise you. XX Suen, I shall glorify your name.
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		B18	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.4.13.03	A balbale to Nanna (Nanna C)		B19	A balbale of Nanna.
