id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		1-6	XX, Enlil decreed your birth in the E-kur! Nuska, Enlil decreed your birth in the E-kur! Lord Nudimmud, the king of prosperity, honoured you in the abzu. Good minister, I shall praise you! Nuska, majestic minister of Enlil, your praise is good and most sweet. My king, I shall praise you in song!
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		7-14	You are the light of the good shepherd Enlil, and you have been given a majestic name by Ninlil. You have been given wisdom by Enki. You were born to Enul and Ninul, and so you are united with the lordly seed. You are the E-kur's song. You are a minister fit for his king: Nuska, you are the man of Enlil's heart.
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		15-25	You are the wise one among the Anuna gods! You are pre-eminent in just speech! You are the good minister of Father Enlil! You do not alter what you have spoken justly. You are the light of the shining XX. You have been given authority XX. You have been looked on favourably by Enlil. You are an adornment of the household of Enlil.


t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		56-63	
You make pleasing the offering table of Nintur. You issue orders for Ennugi. You XX life for the king. You XX over the single path of heaven and earth.
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		64-71	At the command of the household of Enlil, you XX the great divine powers, you XX the good divine powers, you are the good provider of the majestic divine powers, you make manifest the everlasting divine powers; you are clothed in the divine powers of ba garments and linen garments; you make the princely divine powers prosper, you perfect the multitude of the divine powers.
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		72-76	The Anuna, the great gods, all honour you with due praise: Minister, you are endowed with princely strength XX the lustration rites. You gladden Father Enlil's heart! Praise be to Nuska, the leader of the assembly!
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		77-78	Praise to Nisaba, the righteous, glorious woman who consults with An!
t.4.29.2	A šir-gida to Nuska (Nuska B)		79	A šir-gida of Nuska.
