id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		1-10	Lord who inspires awe in heaven and on earth, who is resplendent in the Land, engendered for kingship by your father, your awesomeness weighs upon the black-headed. The Anuna, the great gods, cower together before your awesomeness and radiance. Nergal, lord who inspires awe in heaven and on earth, who is resplendent in the Land, engendered for kingship by your father, your awesomeness weighs upon the black-headed. The Anuna, the great gods, cower together before your awesomeness and radiance.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		11-20	Hero, after your father begot you, your father Enlil bestowed on you the mountain of the earth and all of the people. He definitively handed the deciding of destinies to you. Hero, Nergal, you are their king! Nergal, hero, after your father begot you, your father Enlil bestowed on you the mountain of the earth and all of the people. He definitively handed the deciding of destinies to you. Hero, Nergal, you are their king!
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		21-30	Lord who imposes silence, son of Enlil, who in his heroism like a flood demands respect (?)! May the people of Lagaš spread on your pure table everything you need. Nergal, may you stretch forth your arm over the place Lagaš. Nergal, lord who imposes silence, son of Enlil, who in his heroism like a flood demands respect (?)! May the people of Lagaš spread on your pure table everything you need. Nergal, may you stretch forth your arm over the place Lagaš.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		31	Sa-gida.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		32-41	XX heroism, XX Uzarpara (?), the shrine XX, you are Mešlamta-ea, XX. Nergal, lord, you are the Enlil of his Land. Like Alla (?), you have no rival. Like Ištaran, it has been given to you to reach correct judgments.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		42-51	Enlil, shepherd of the black-headed, has given you as your name "Lord who leads away the enemies of Enlil, avenger of his father, strong hero". The gods have determined your fate. They have given XX to you. On earth you are XX, in heaven you are XX. Because of your noise no god opposes you. Just young man who XX the plague, provider for the place Lagaš, Mešlamta-ea, may people praise you in song!
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		52-61	Lord of the just word, lord of abundance, hero! At your name, people obey. Frightening sea like a rising XX, with your kingship you inspire terrifying fear. Hero, with your magnificent strength XX you pile up the rebel lands in heaps. Nergal, your name is praised in song. May the lady, An's daughter, the lady who loves her city, Bau who concerns herself with you, in Iri-kug, her city of ladyship, make your appointed XX famous for a reign of distant days.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		62	Sa-ŋara.
t.4.15.3	A tigi to Nergal (Nergal C)		63	A tigi of Nergal.
