id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		1-8	Royal courier, start the journey! I want to send you to Nibru -- deliver this message! You are going on a long journey. My mother 
is worried, she cannot sleep

1 ms. has instead: is too (?) XX to sleep
. Although the way to 
her

1 ms. has instead: the closed
 woman's domain is blocked, deliver my letter of greeting into her hands, 
as she keeps asking

1 ms. has instead: and then she will not keep asking
 the 
travellers

1 ms. has instead: wayfarers
 about my well-being. Then my mother will be delighted, and will treat you most kindly (?) for it.
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		9-20	In case you should not recognise my mother, let me describe her to you. Her name is 
Šat-Eštar

1 ms. has instead: Šimat-Eštar
, 
XX by her words

some mss. have instead: XX
 XX. Her body, face and limbs, and outer appearance are XX. She is the fair goddess of her city-quarter. Her fate has been decided since the days of her youth. Single-handed she keeps in order the house of her father-in-law. She serves humbly before her divine mistress. She knows how to look after Inana's place. She never disobeys the 
orders

1 ms. has instead: wishes
 of the king. She is energetic and causes possessions to multiply. She is loving, gentle, and lively. By nature she is a lamb, sweet butter, honey, flowing ghee.
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		21-31	Let me give you another description of my mother: My mother is like the bright light 
in the sky

1 ms. has instead: on the horizon
, a doe on the hillsides. She is the morning star, 
shining even at noon-time

1 ms. has instead: providing plenty of light
. She is precious cornelian, a topaz from Marhaši. She is the jewellery of a king's brother, full of beauty. She is 
a cylinder seal of nir stone, an ornament like the sun

1 ms. has instead: a cornelian jewel, an ornamental drinking cup

1 ms. has instead: a cornelian XX, an ornament of nir stone

1 ms. has instead: a XX jewel, a beautiful drinking cup
. She is a bracelet of tin, a ring of antasura metal. She is a nugget of shining gold and silver, 
but which is living and draws breath XX

1 ms. has instead: XX and breathing

1 ms. has instead: XX place XX
. She is an alabaster statuette of a protective goddess standing on a pedestal of lapis lazuli. She is 
a polished rod of ivory

2 mss. have instead: a living figurine (?)
, 
with limbs full of beauty

1 ms. has instead: XX

1 ms. has instead: full of pleasure
.
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		32-39	Let me give you a third description of my mother: My mother is 
rain from heaven

1 ms. has instead: timely rain
, water for the finest seeds. She is a bountiful harvest of 
fully-grown fine barley

1 ms. has instead: ripe, exceedingly fine barley

1 ms. has instead: heavenly XX

1 ms. has instead: ripe maturity (?) XX
. She is a garden of 
XX

1 ms. has instead: delights
, 
full of laughter

1 ms. has instead: filled with rejoicing
. She is a well-irrigated pine tree, 
an adorned juniper

1 ms. has instead: adorned with pine-cones
. She is early fruit, the 
products

1 ms. has instead: garden's yield
 of the first month. She is an irrigation ditch bringing fertilising water to the garden plots. She is a sweet Dilmun date, a prime date much sought after.
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		40-46	Let me give you a fourth description of my mother: My mother fills the festivals and offerings with joy. She is 
an akitum offering

1 ms. has instead: the akitum festival
, awesome (?) to look upon. She is the offspring, 
the child

1 ms. has instead: the daughter
 of the king, a song of abundance. She is a place of entertainment set up for delights. 
1 ms. adds: XX fruit XX abundance.
 She is a lover, a loving heart who never becomes sated with pleasure. She is the good news that the captive will return 
to his mother

1 ms. has instead: to celebrate
.
t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		47-52	Let me give you a fifth description of my mother: My mother is a palm-tree, with the sweetest fragrance. She is a chariot of juniper wood, a sedan chair of boxwood. She is 
a fine cloth

1 ms. has instead: a good XX
 perfumed with refined oil. She is a bunch of grapes, a garland (?) 
growing luxuriantly

1 ms. has instead: perfect in luxuriant growth
. 
She

1 ms. has instead: My mother
 is a phial made from an ostrich egg, 
overflowing

1 ms. has instead: full
 with 
finest

1 ms. has instead: perfumed
 oil. 
1 ms. adds: She is a fair woman, accompanied by a protective goddess XX. She is a woman who will show you compassion like (?) Aruru, XX born XX.

t.5.5.1	The message of Lu-diŋira to his mother		53-54	
When, thanks to the descriptions I have given you, you stand in her (?) radiant presence, tell her: Your beloved son Lu-diŋira is in good health.

1 ms. has instead: The descriptions I have given you describe (?) her (?) appearance. A most fair woman accompanied by many protective goddesses, she is my mother. Pay attention, XX joyfully XX: Your beloved son Lu-diŋira is in good health XX, tell her XX.


