id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		A1-20	(Silver (?) speaks:) Powerful with huge arms, does he have any rival? He walks carrying the precious hammer stone and anvil stone. He can create XX and thus make it larger -- XX, a brother, is your right arm; XX, a mother (?), is your left (?). He has created XX; let him show it off. Constantly digging XX, let him accumulate goods. After exalted XX conceived (?) him, after XX like a breast, after XX towards the abzu, XX to the edge of the horizon, may XX bring XX for you. After XX made XX.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		A52-72	(Copper speaks:) Hills and depths XX. My harrow XX. Levelling all the mounds XX, Strong Copper directs (?) the way. A dragon XX. Strong Copper XX the fields. Turbulent waters XX ewes. Strong Copper XX the mighty waters. Enlil XX.  Silver XX Strong Copper XX
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		A81-90	Enlil XX called for his minister Nuska: My minister, Nuska! (Nuska answered:) Always at your service! (Enlil replied:) Strong Copper XX the throne and serves -- let him sit in his XX. He had barely finished speaking thus to him, when Nuska and the minister's retinue went together to XX and said to Strong Copper Come in! Then Strong Copper clasped against his chest the labours of his huge arms, the abundance of heaven and earth, as an offering and a gift.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		A91-98	But Silver too held against his chest the goats, bulls and sheep he had slaughtered. Not planting trees in the XX, Silver XX silver in small pieces XX. After him, he XX his famous XX, very good things, to Strong Copper on his neck. Silver XX an old reed box. He put XX inside it. Silver XX silver in small pieces XX.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		A99-128	Against Strong Copper, the strong heir of Father Enlil, he hurled vile insults, and cast vile curses: The porters with their arms tied to their work; the potter, digging the hoe in the ground, for days on end extracting the clay with his hands; the XX worker from daybreak in a pit unfit for washing or bathing; the shipbuilder, caulking a boat, heating up fish oil, with garments not easy to clean; the cook, heating up oil, carrying XX water, standing by the place of testimony; the brewer, who does not untie his belt in warm weather, whose hands do not dry the clay; the maltster, never resting in winter, XX; the nest hunter (?), spreading the nets, working in hollows; the barber, cutting the growth, removing the flourishing roots; the freight waggon oxen shaking their heads; the donkeys submitting their necks to the yoke, XX, carrying firewood; XX.   The oven XX warm food.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		B1-14	(Silver speaks:) XX one who neither XX foundations nor erects reed fences. Get out! You wander about XX. But my assigned task is in houses, in XX and at banquets. Silver did not XX in the XX which he had XX. He spoke this way in the matter of the XX strength.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		B15-18	Then Strong Copper, the warrior of heaven (?), kept his body firm, and did not take XX; he did not show hate, but kept quiet (?). He kept his neck firm, and did not XX. He XX his rejoicing face to the gods.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		B19-27	Strong Copper XX and addressed the Anuna gods: Ninsumun, the woman of all the destinies, XX generously. The speech XX, XX wisdom, forgetting (?) XX, XX, pulling it out like a root, XX, XX my counsellor XX, XX the house's fire before Enlil, I will XX warm water XX.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		B28-34	Strong Copper answered Silver: Silver, to make lead shine (?) is not an important achievement. Restitution according to the tablets does not do the work of Copper. A hand without a wrist cannot (?) work. A weak neck carries nothing, does not XX a thing to a load. A heart XX, mankind XX. No one XX a boat with bitumen XX in the river.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		C1-12	(Copper speaks:)  XX the oil jar, XX trap that ties someone up, XX all full of lies, XX his hand bringing taxes, XX erasing restitutions, XX people are deceived. A XX organised by you goes to the desert, XX. No one should put in a dwelling a XX by you. A XX by you should not make grain grow with the labours of the soil. It should not fill the silos with grain, it makes no one rejoice. It should not fill the hairy sacks with grain.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		C13-21	No king should ride on a barge built by you. No one should carry things from afar on a trip in a chariot of yours. In the palace, no one should place on a table your edible XX. No young man of XX should be pleased by XX your soil (?). No XX of assorted woods or fine oils from you should stand on the streets. You should not work with wood, you should not work with reeds!
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D1-5	(Copper speaks:) XX the heavens were separated from the earth, there was no drinking water XX. In order that the people should eat food XX, my father Enlil created me in a single day, and then the Tigris charged like a great wild bull.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D6-11	At that time, your feet did not move, and you did not walk around. In the XX of Enlil, not separated from the XX, you got up, and you moved your feet toward his house. They cut you to pieces with the strength provided by me. Someone opens XX there with the abundance I give to the population.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D12-17	Silver, consider the palace! XX finds the time right, according to the turning starry sky, (and says:) Come on! You will perform the work of your arms, you will help Enlil. But you stick out a long tongue like a buck-goat so that everybody can see. Indoors, the palace is your station and banquets are your assigned task (you say). -- Silver, I will demonstrate to you that the palace is neither your station nor your dwelling.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D18-23	Men caulk tiny, very strong boxes for you, as they do a boat. They cover you over with their oldest rags, and someone digs a hole for you in the middle of the cattle-pen. Or they pour clay on top of you, as on a jar with a sealed mouth, and then, in the darkest place inside the house, someone buries you in the most obscure corner of a grave.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D24-37	When the time of wet ground has arrived for me, you do not supply the copper hoes that chop plants in the hard ground, so no one concerns themselves with you. When sowing time has arrived for me, you do not supply the copper adzes that make ploughs, so no one concerns themselves with you. When winter time has arrived for me, you do not supply the copper axes that chop firewood, so no one concerns themselves with you. When harvest time has arrived for me, you do not supply the copper sickles that reap grain, so no one concerns themselves with you. For your harvest or winter, you do not supply the copper adzes and chisels which build houses, not even a female lamb, so no one concerns themselves with you.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D38-46	Silver, you are forgotten in the soil inside the house. A scared mouse in a silent house, XX -- Silver, the palace is not your station! An obscure place, a grave, such is your station. Silver, banquets are not your assigned task -- fasting is your assigned task. Silver, to make lead shine (?) is not an important achievement. The task of making divine statues is not likely to fall within your capabilities. Why do you keep attacking me like a dog? You snake, get back in the darkest part of the house and lie down in your grave!
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D47-51	Strong Copper cast his legitimate insults against Silver, and was full of hate against him -- insults of a miserable dog, like water from a brackish well. He exerted his powers against him to harass him. And at this, Silver felt thoroughly harassed; it did not befit his dignity.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D52-59	Silver answered Strong Copper: You do not give blades to the XX wooden hoe that breaks the XX ground. The wooden XX tool mixes the clay (?) XX; wedges are not written by you. The wooden shovels pile up the sheaves -- match your measuring devices to the measuring stick! Just approach the cargo boat that XX the canal banks, just keep knocking on the great door of the house at night! The coppersmith wrestles with stones and with beads -- they are too hard and he has to stop because of you. Work away with your tines at the dirt by the oven instead!
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D60-66	You have accumulated lies about my honourable station. Let me, the mouse, do his work -- his assigned task in the ground is noble. Your teeth dig the ground, your tongue (?) moves the dirt. The copper hoe has its digging taken over by the wooden hoe in the harder ground. The copper sickles need to have the hard weeds burned. The copper axes which chop trees, stripping and pulling out tamarisks and ash shrubs, have their blades dulled. The copper saws have to lie down for a rest beside the mountain trees.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		D67-84	When you keep hitting the soil, like someone falling from a roof; when they carry (?) you out from the big brambles and XX thorns, like a dog with a XX, as if they were catching a thief at midnight; when the great, turbulent waters, regularly, yearly (?), fill the desert; when they carry the grain from the dry ground to the canal banks; when they carry the sesame from the furrows to the canal banks; when they carry to the XX red onions, white onions, edible bulbous leeks (?) and turnips flourishing in the furrows; when they transport the salt and spice seeds lying at the edges of the fields; when they feed the various grains to cattle and sheep; when they bring XX to the pigs born at the fattener's; when they feed dough to the porcupine's litter; when they crush coarse flour for the huge wild boars, straight-tailed fish, il (?) fish, carp, fish with bellies (?), giraba fish laying their eggs in large amounts in the shallows (?), gurgal birds, suda birds, large u birds from the middle of the sea, eggs of ducks and all kinds of birds, all the good things which thrive in the desert, at peace there.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		E1-14	Strong Copper XX. I shall give small one-shekel pieces of silver; you should XX 3 or 4 minas. If he turns his attention to the development of humanity, small 5- or 10-mina peces of silver XX  The captain XX the role of overseer.  small 5- or 10-mina peces of silver XX
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		F1-10	of Enlil XX. Small ten-shekel pieces of silver XX
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		G1-11	XX in aromatic oil of cedar XX. XX humans, the black-headed people. Let him anoint each with my XX aromatic oil of cedar. XX it is an abomination to my king.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		H1-7	XX for my father Enlil.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		I1-12	Silver and Strong Copper having carefully had a debate, Strong Copper had the lead over Silver in Enlil's house -- Father Enlil be praised!
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		I13-29	Then the days passed, the year grew long, the silos filled up and flax was beaten XX. The year, the faraway days, XX. The heavens XX stars and lengthening shadows. XX the shadows XX. The stars of heaven XX did not XX. The records, to be found in the sacred tablets of the stars, XX. The heavens, XX, having been separated from the earth XX.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		I30-36	Enlil joyfully addressed Sumer. In a XX of abundance he raised XX to the duties of shepherd. In order to build the XX of Enlil, to bring forth the houses of the great gods, to raise the banks of the levees and ditches, Enlil gave strength to the shepherd Ur-Namma in his majestic arms.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		I37-44	On Ur-Namma receiving XX and kingship, after he XX a good XX, Strong Copper helped him mightily. With it, the shepherd Ur-Namma XX in great amounts. With it, he XX the great temple of Suen in Urim. With it, he XX the E-kur, the house of Enlil in Nibru. He made famous the houses of the great gods, and raised high the banks of the levees and ditches.
t.5.3.6	The debate between Copper and Silver		I45-58	Under him, his city XX. Under him, wool XX. Under him, oil XX. Under him, the people eat excellent food. Ur-Namma XX broad wisdom. Strong Copper XX great XX. When raising XX, he XX. He called the one giving XX as his XX singer. The XX of bright XX. He investigated the XX of Strong Copper. XX their helpers. In order to build his XX. Not neglecting XX.
