id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		1-6	ellu mallu! Go, oxen, go, put your necks under the yoke! Go, XX oxen, go, put your necks under the yoke! I am XX of the country. I am XX of Enlil. I am XX of the Land.
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		7-20	ellu mallu!

And now, may the mother XX with me; and now, may Nanše XX with me. May she put bread in my leather bag, may she pour water into my waterskin. May she stand by for me XX. May she say to me, Farmer, eat the bread!, may she say to me, Farmer, drink the water!
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		21-37	ellu mallu! In the temple he lay down to dream with Nanše. He said good night (?) to Nanše. He had his leather bag filled with bread, he had water poured into his waterskin. She stood by for him XX. The farmer had a vision (?): a young bull was talking XX, XX tied the feet (?). The farmer said to his mother, Bread was put for me in my leather bag, water was poured for me into my waterskin. XX stood by for me.

t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		38-61	ellu mallu! What XX? What XX? Who XX? Who XX? Who XX the clods? Who XX the birds? On the right XX, on the left XX.

My big hooves XX. The stars in the sky XX. XX will make straight its XX. The ox XX let his thick tongue hang down, XX he replied, I am an ox, but just a young ox, in whose muzzle hair has not yet grown. No dust has fallen yet on my shoulders. My master, why am I so valuable? My stalwart calf, I shall speak to you only once, so pay attention. What a plough (?)! Your fathers are four. What a plough (?)! Your mothers are eight. May Utu guide straight your fine plough!
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		62-65	ellu mallu! The early-working farmer, the shepherd of the holy cattle-pen, the young man who, since his youth, has had a wife and has had sons, does not XX alone.
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		66-91	ellu mallu! I XX the stars in the sky, I XX a gleam in the sky. I XX the bedding on the roof.

t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		92-118	ellu mallu! Enkimdu, he of dykes and canals, says to the lord XX, My king, I want to XX. I will irrigate your fertile fields XX. The early rain XX
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		119-142	ellu mallu! The harrow, the comb of my field, must be fitted with large teeth to harrow the holy field. The mattock must dig the edges. Remove the stumps! The mattock must dig the edges. Once you have taken down from the beam your holy plough which was hanging from a beam, a skilled carpenter must tighten its bonds. XX its side boards.

XX noises. XX the measuring reed in his right hand. Enkimdu, he of dykes and canals XX, should XX for you in XX.
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		143-148	ellu mallu! Go, oxen, go, put your necks under the yoke! Go, XX oxen, go, put your necks under the yoke! Tread the furrows of the fertile field, walk the sides straight. In the alehouse, the joy XX, XX Inana XX a place of relaxation. XX is restored again XX.
t.5.5.5	The song of the ploughing oxen: an ululumama to Ninurta		149	An ululumama song of Ninurta.
