id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		1-3	There were three friends, citizens of Adab, who fell into a dispute with each other, and sought justice. They deliberated the matter with many words, and went before the king.
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		4-13	Our king! We are ox-drivers. The ox belongs to one man, the cow belongs to one man, and the waggon belongs to one man. We became thirsty and had no water. We said to the owner of the ox, If you were to fetch some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if my ox is devoured by a lion? I will not leave my ox!. We said to the owner of the cow, If you were to fetch some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if my cow went off into the desert? I will not leave my cow!. We said to the owner of the waggon, If you were to fetch some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if the load were removed from my waggon? I will not leave my waggon!. Come on, let's all go! Come on, and let's return together!
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		14-15	First the ox, although tied with a leash (?), mounted the cow, and then she dropped her young, and the calf started to chew up (?) the waggon's load. Who does this calf belong to? Who can take the calf?
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		16-17	The king did not give them an answer, but went to visit a cloistered lady. The king sought advice from the cloistered lady:
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		18-28	Three young men came before me and said: Our king, we are ox-drivers. The ox belongs to one man, the cow belongs to one man, and the waggon belongs to one man. We became thirsty and had no water. We said to the owner of the ox, If you were to draw some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if my ox is devoured by a lion? I will not leave my ox!. We said to the owner of the cow, If you were to draw some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if my cow went off into the desert? I will not leave my cow!. We said to the owner of the waggon, If you were to draw some water, then we could drink!. And he said, What if the load were removed from my waggon? I will not leave my waggon! he said. Come on, let's all go! Come on, and let's return together!
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		29-30	First the ox, although tied with a leash (?), mounted the cow, and then she dropped her young, and the calf started to chew up (?) the waggon's load. Who does this calf belong to? Who can take the calf?
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		65-72	(The cloistered lady continues her reply to the king:) Well now, the owner of the ox, XX his field XX. After his ox has been eaten by a lion XX, his field XX.

The hero XX. Like a mountaineer XX. A dog XX the ox XX. A strong man (?) XX in his field XX.
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		73-80	Well now, the owner of the cow XX his wife. After his cow has gone off into the desert XX, his wife will walk the streets XX. After the cow has dropped its young XX, the hero, walking in the rain (?)XX. His wife XX herself. The ox's food ration which he has turned to his XX, XX hunger. His wife dwells with him in his house, his desired one XX
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		81-88	Well now, the owner of the waggon, after he has abandoned his XX, and the load has been removed from his waggon, and XX from his waggon, and after he has brought his XX into his house, XX will be made to leave his house. His calf that began to chew up (?) the waggon's load will be XX in his house. When he has approached (?) XX the open-armed (?) hero, the king, having learnt about his case, will make his XX leave his 
waste ground

1 ms. has instead: location
. XX the ox, XX has partaken of my (?) wisdom, shall not oppose (?) it. His load, XX, will not return (?).
t.5.6.5	The three ox-drivers from Adab		89-95	When the king came out from the cloistered lady's presence, each (?) man's heart was dissatisfied. The man who hated his wife left his wife. The man XX his XX abandoned his XX. With elaborate words, with elaborate words, the case of the citizens of Adab was settled. Pa-niŋin-ŋara, their sage, the scholar, the god of Adab, was the scribe.
