id_text,text_name,version,l_no,text
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		1-9	An evil day XX upon the maiden in her XX. Upon the fair woman, the well-favoured maiden, the evil eye XX. Upon the fledgling overstepping its nest, a net has XX. The fecund mother, the mother of children, is XX by a snare. The yellow cow, the loud-voiced wild cow, XX like a gakkul vessel. Nawirtum, the loud-voiced wild cow, XX like a gakkul vessel. She who never said I am sick was not cared for. She who did not XX did not XX the divine place. Like their resting-place, their hurled XX was not XX.
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		10-19	Nibru is covered in fog (?); in the city XX. Over the multitudes a cry of woe (?) has fallen, XX. Lamenting XX like a war-cry in battle XX.

They are overcome by pity for her whose life has ended. They are anguished (?) at her being laid out like a golden statue. Whoever looks upon her, will they not weep? The weeping women XX. The best songs XX of the bards of sweet words are altered everywhere into laments and moans.
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		20-26	Because XX had been returned, they utter it as a song for her. Because from her small XX, she did not dispense advice the XX stone XX; it was lost (?). Because her days were not prolonged in the embrace of her husband and weeping never ceased, because Ninurta did not enjoy happiness from his XX, and because his beloved nin-diŋir priestess did not enter the ŋipar, the she-ass which had been chosen as a mate is not accepted as an offering.
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		27-38	Because XX was brought to an end at his side, he rises in greatness and favour, uttering a lament for her. For her mother who bore her, the bright light turned to darkness, XX for her. He makes their shares (?), their XX, into a XX for her. Their souls have come forth before her, their evil bodies are torn apart. Their XX, workers and kin are XX, their XX are XX.

they did not stand XX. Their nursemaids were XX. The XX fled (?). Like angry men, stones XX sick (?), the light from above XX did not increase from her city.
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		39-46	Then her beloved husband all alone XX, in his city, in Nibru, the city XX, Lu-diŋira, her beloved husband, all alone XX, in his city, in Nibru, the city XX, approached her with suffering heart in XX, the great dwelling-place. They took his hand, their hearts were overwhelmed (?). His XX was excluded from nourishment, his breath was stifled (?). He uttered moans (?) like a cow, he who had no XX garments.
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		47-56	He wears their XX, he weeps for her: O where is XX? I would call upon you! Where are Meme and the alluring protective spirits? I would call upon you! Where is the XX, the XX, the gracious words? I would call upon you! Where are my XX weapon and gloriously fashioned quiver? I would call upon you! Where is that which brightens the XX face, my noble counsel? I would call upon you! Where is my XX, my precious brilliance? I would call upon you! Where are my sweet songs which make the heart rejoice? I would call upon you! Where are my XX weapon and golden quiver which brightens the spirit? I would call upon you! Where are my dancing, hand-waving, and frolicking (?)? I would call upon you!
t.5.5.3	An elegy on the death of Nawirtum		57-66	May your way of life not be forgotten, may your name be called on. May the guilt of your house be erased, may your sin be released. May your husband stay well, may he achieve valour and seniority. May the fate of your children be propitious, may well-being be in store for them. May your household progress, may its future be ample. May Utu bring forth for you bright light from the nether world, XX clear water. May Ninkura stand by you, may she raise you high. Concerning the bitter storm that has been turned against you, may it return to the horizon. May a cruel curse be uttered against the galla demon who has brought his hand against you. Concerning the kindly maiden who lies in her splendour like a bull, bitter is the lament for you.
