id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A1-9	What do they say in the reedbeds whose growth is good? In the wide reedbeds of Tutub, whose growth is good? In the marshes of Kiritaba, whose growth is good? In the adara thickets of Akšak, whose growth is good? In Enki's interconnecting (?) lagoons, whose growth is good? In the smaller lagoon, Enki's lagoon, whose growth is good? In Enki's barbar reeds, whose growth is good? In the little zi reeds of Urim, whose growth is good? In Urim, where cows and calves abound, whose growth is good?
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A10-21	At that time, the water was drained away from the reeds XX, and they were visible at the sheepfold. The aštaltal plant, spreading its seeds from the reedbeds, and the little kumul plants came out of the earth: they are good as little ones. The small enbar reed tighten her headdress: it is good as a young maiden. The ubzal reed goes about the city: it is good as a young man. The pela reed is covered from bottom to top: it is a good daughter-in-law. The pela reed turns from bottom to top: it is a good young son. The gašam reed digs in the ground: it is good as an old man. The zi reed XX on its own: it is good as an old woman. The reedbed lifts its head beautifully: it is a good Gudea. The ildag tree lifts its head in the irrigation ditch: it is good as a king. XX with bright branches: it is a good prince.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A22-25	On that day, beside the reedbeds, someone sitting on the bank prays: Let me snatch away the heron's eggs, let me take them away XX, so that the gift-bringing bird will not be able to make a gift, so that the gift-bringing heron will not be able make a gift!
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A26-31	It catches fish; it collects eggs and crushes them. It crushes the suhur carp in the honey plants. It crushes the eštub carp in the little zi reeds. It crushes toads in the ligiligi grass. It crushes fish spawn, its offspring, its family. It strikes heron's eggs and smashes them in the sea.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A32-47	The gift-giving bird made a plea; the heron entered the house of King Enki and spoke to him: Give me XX a wide-open place to lay my eggs in. He gave her XX, and did XX for her. XX is indeed XX  She laid eggs in the XX. She laid eggs in the wide reedbeds of Tutub. She laid eggs in the marshes of Kiritaba. She laid eggs in the adara thickets of Akšak. She laid eggs in Enki's interconnecting (?) lagoons. She laid eggs in the smaller lagoon, the lagoon of Eridug. She laid eggs in Enki's barbar reeds. She laid eggs in the little zi reeds of Urim. She laid eggs in Urim, where cows and calves abound.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A48-59	Then the quarrelsome turtle, he of the troublesome way, said: I am going to pick a quarrel with the heron, the heron! I, the turtle, am going to pick a quarrel with the heron! I, whose eyes are snake's eyes, am going to pick a quarrel! I, whose mouth is a snake's mouth, am going to pick a quarrel! I, whose tongue is a snake's tongue, am going to pick a quarrel! I, whose bite is a puppy's bite, am going to pick a quarrel! With my slender hands and slender feet, I am going to pick a quarrel! I, the turtle -- an oven brick -- am going to pick a quarrel! I, who live in the vegetable gardens, am going to pick a quarrel! I, who like a digging tool spend my time in the mud, am going to pick a quarrel! I, an unwashed refuse-basket, am going to pick a quarrel!
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A60-66	The turtle, the trapper of birds, the setter of nets, overthrew the heron's construction of reeds for her, turned her nest upside down, and tipped her children into the water. The turtle scratched the dark-eyed bird's forehead with its claws, so that her breast was covered in blood from it.  1 ms. adds 1 line: XX in the dust.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A67-71	The heron cried out, shedding tears: If I, a bird, XX my empty nest and XX  1 ms. adds: I, a heron, XX; I shall take my case up to my king, XX . Let my king judge my case, and give me verdict! Let Enki judge my case, and give me verdict! May the lord of Eridug XX my claim.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A72-78	A second time, may the gift-bringing bird not be able to make a gift, may the gift-bringing heron not be able to make a gift! It the turtle catches fish; it collects eggs and crushes them. It crushes the suhur carp in the  honey plants  1 ms. has instead: reedbeds . It crushes the eštub carp in the little zi reeds. It crushes toads in the ligiligi grass. It crushes fish spawn, its offspring, its family.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A79-89	It dug in the ground, XX its head upwards XX.  1 ms. has instead: The heron XX, XX.  She the heron  1 ms. adds: entered the house and  cried out to King Enki: My king, you gave me the wide reedbeds, and I laid eggs there. I laid eggs in the wide reedbeds of Tutub. I laid eggs in the marshes of Kiritaba. I laid eggs in the adara thickets of Akšak. I laid eggs in Enki's interconnecting (?) lagoons. I laid eggs in the smaller lagoon, the lagoon of Eridug. I laid eggs in Enki's barbar reeds. I laid eggs in the little zi reeds of Urim. I laid eggs in Urim, where cows and calves abound.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A90-101	Then the quarrelsome turtle, he of the troublesome way, he whose eyes are snake's eyes, he of the troublesome way, he whose mouth is a snake's mouth, he of the troublesome way, he whose tongue is a snake's tongue, he of the troublesome way, he whose bite is a puppy's bite, he of the troublesome way, he with the slender hands and slender feet, the turtle -- an oven brick -- he of the troublesome way, he who lives in the vegetable gardens, he of the troublesome way, he who like a digging tool spends his time in the mud, he of the troublesome way, an unwashed refuse-basket, he of the troublesome way, the turtle, the trapper of birds, the setter of nets, overthrew my heron's construction of reeds.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A102-106	He turned my nest upside down, and tipped my children into the water. The turtle scratched my forehead -- me, the dark-eyed bird -- with its claws, so that my breast was covered with my blood  1 ms. adds: XX in the water .
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A107-120	The prince called to his minister, Isimud: My minister, Isimud, my Sweet Name of Heaven! I stand at Enki's service! What is your wish? First XX is filtered on the left side, then a copper box is made, so that XX is covered. Then you tie XX, and you tie the top with string XX; then you XX with a piece of dough, and you irrigate the outer enclosure (?); and you put XX (?) Enki's interconnecting (?) lagoons. Then let him sit XX
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A121-129	Isimud XX paid attention. First he filtered XX on the left side, then he made a copper box and covered XX. Then he tied the top with string XX; then he XX with a piece of dough, and he irrigated the outer enclosure (?); and he XX (?) Enki's interconnecting (?) lagoons. (Enki speaks:) Then I, the prince, will make XX stand XX.
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A130-166	The turtle called to the prince: You are a prince! She XX. XX from fire. I am not a god; XX  King Enki XX. You are a prince! She XX. My heart XX. You are a prince! She XX your word. My little one destroyed a wall XX; she XX. You are a prince! You are XX. XX brickwork.  Your flax (?) is single Your XX is single; XX. XX the hero XX. Your seed is single XX. XX a tall tree. My strong copper XX. XX good semen XX
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		A167-208	Then, on the ziggurat XX. King Enki was XX on the ziggurat. The great brickwork of the ziggurat XX the abzu; the brickwork of the abzu XX. He took dirt from his fingernail and created the dimgi vegetable. He made the dimgi XX in the ground. Your flax came out of the earth XX. He watered the little ones with his hand; he watered the big ones with his foot. The flax grew large. After the flax had grown tall, after he had bound (?) it XX   The king XX.    They seized XX for him. They XX for him. They confronted (?) XX in the desert.  XX, they laid out the hunting net. XX did not catch; he caught in (?) the hunting net, XX did not catch; he spread out the hunting net.  XX of Enki  May you be XX; may you be XX; may you be XX; may you be XX
t.5.9.2	The heron and the turtle		B1-9	XX of Enki. XX did not catch; XX the hunting net. The turtle XX. Enki XX something from his fingernail. Its inside is five XX; its exterior is 10 XX. A crevice XX
