Princely son, respected one in heaven spreading amply over the high mountains, rising high as he casts a glowing radiance, majestic XX, his head reaching the sky, fixing the new moon and the months, shining forth, Nanna! Versed in numbers, may you look down graciously! Ašimbabbar, great light of holy An, mighty one (?) spreading wide, you cover (?) the numerous people.
XX light, prince lifting his head with (?) the crown, not changing XX, making the Land firm forever, august XX who XX in abundance, XX kingship XX, XX with shining horns, in the sky XX, XX the month XX Sumer, on earth XX, XX of (?) the E-kur, radiance XX. XX on the other side, holy countenance which he alone XX, true light, filling the wide sky, Ašimbabbar XX greatly.
Nanna, dragon of heaven and earth, standing XX, fixing the months and the new moon, sets the year in its place. Suen, lord, in heaven you alone are majestic. Lord, light of heaven, you are positioned forever. To prolong years of abundance, causing the early flood and unceasing abundance, to make firm the quays, to regulate the nipples of heaven, to establish celebration, XX to bring speckled grain, to XX, XX, to make firm the lofty dais of E-kiš-nu-ŋal, Nanna, to make firm the seat of kingship of the Land,
XX with (?) a remote heart XX, XX Urim, the city you have chosen, in the XX of An and Enlil XX, his lofty XX, may he (?) look favourably upon you. XX when you reside in the place where you find rest, XX in the Agrun-kug a just destiny is determined. The Great Mountain Enlil has set his mind on Lord Ašimbabbar. XX in his Hursaŋ-galama, XX as he instills terror and inspires fearsome awe, in the XX of the shrine Urim he determines favourable destinies.
XX widespread people XX may he until distant times make the power majestic. XX speckled grain XX, XX abundance XX; may he raise raise his head XX like XX. May XX the restored place. May he bestow XX unapproachable XX.
Majestic XX, born of Ninlil, XX, Lord Ašimbabbar, holy son of An, XX luxuriance, majestic XX whose just word cannot be changed, XX, Nanna, may you exert great power!
