Hero, august youth, who completely controls the distant mountains as far as their borders! Martu, august youth, who completely controls the distant mountains as far as their borders, who possesses the strength of a savage lion, who occupies a holy dais in the mountains, the pure place! Martu, who possesses the strength of a savage lion, who occupies a holy dais in the mountains, the pure place, who is imbued with great fearsomeness, whom holy An engendered, who appears gloriously with numerous divine powers! His own mother Ninhursaŋa made his form excel Medim-ša's so that no one should threaten him. The Anuna, the great gods, enhanced his strength with warrior qualities, and spoke favourably to him. They invested (?) him with authority that accompanies him in battle like a coat of armour, XX to him mace, divine weapon, a great bow, arrows and quiver in his august hands, made his divinity magnificently perfect, and let him XX no adversaries.
He rears up, he XX the fields. He is greatly august, possessing the strength of a lion, XX. He is endowed with fearsomeness like a raging lion. Like a rampant wild bull, XX. He grasps the seven winds, makes fire XX, subduing all in battle and fight, XX like lightning. Acute fear of him seizes all the wicked, XX a southerly storm. The strength ebbs away from the city that he has cursed.
For the king, he annihilates all enemy lands that are not compliant to him. Martu, the son of An, extends a hand to the good shepherd whom he has chosen in his holy heart. His name is an august and ineffable name. No one XX. The god with hands pure from purification rites, whose divine powers are resplendent divine powers, annihilates evil and violence, and sets justice in their place. His father who inspired him, his own father, the lord of the gods, the prince who decides destinies, handed the distant sky and the broad earth to this savage god who gives just verdicts, who is knowledgeable in decision-making, an adviser; and he let him have no rivals. He presented to him the pure hills, the lapis-lazuli mountains; he presented to him the Martu lands, the lapis-lazuli mountains.
He is a lion-headed hero; he is the king's helper in battle XX. The just man on whom he has returned a XX verdict prays constantly to him. With the sceptre he leads XX to him, and has XX far away. He makes good XX come out of the XX. He sets calves in XX his great XX. XX in cow-pens and sheepfolds XX. He makes fish and birds XX, and makes fresh fruit grow. In the house in which the king XX silver, he ensures that it never ceases. He exceeds XX, and decides great destinies. XX he keeps guard over XX. In the river he causes XX to be available -- he drinks the fresh water that it brings. In the fields he produces XX for him -- he eats the grain that they bring. He makes XX increase in abundance for him. He is hostile to those who XX. His mind XX is reliable speech, and his exterior XX is glory.
He does not alter XX for the king, and prolongs his XX days. He hands him the staff for his right hand, and to his side he ties the mace that guides the thousands.  He sets the king's feet in a well-ordered position (?), and causes him to have no opponents (?). Mankind also address him XX in the view of his god. XX him whom in his kindly heart he has called to kingship. All day long the protective goddess of justice stands unceasingly by his right side. In holy songs musicians sing of him -- the dearly cherished one, the god, the man of the hills, renowned everywhere -- and promote his name gloriously. Martu, son of An, it is sweet to praise you!
