They are thieves, these men who took the turnips. Why do you not XX them?
The thief, out of fear of facing a lion, becomes a man driven by fear of facing a lion cub.
They saw a thief at noon. They XX but it blinded them to him. Thus he carried the loot away.
They caught a burglar breaking into a house: Let me XX.
A hired worker who was lifting a rudder upwards XX gathering (?) wood XX said: What I gave you at the boat's bow -- let me now give it to you from the boat's stern. Do you know what it is?
The load is heavy for the crafty ones. Twice their knees go weak XX.
The crafty one wrapped herself in double-woven cloth (?) and XX from her jar of pressed oil as if from a river.
The head -- a crafty person XX throughout the Land; and he, being crafty, speaks incessantly (?) about his head.
A lame man spoke to his mother: Where a man reclines in a chair, it is really comfortable! His mother replied: What is he afraid of? When did we last see you run away anywhere?
A lame man saw some runners: The people who disappeared, where did they go? he asked.
A lame man came running to the New Year festival (?) and a man said to him: Insofar (?) as you were lame, you wouldn't be able to do that!
A XX lost his shoes. The man who found them said: Where shall I take them? XX for me?
cf. 6.2.1: Ni 13186 Seg. A ll. 7-8 To a XX it is one-third of a mina. To the man who accepts it from him, it is half a mina.
The grieving were making a lament at the outskirts of the city. A man who had followed them XX half way there. The man who took it from him said: Where you have gone XX?
cf. 6.1.09.d3, 6.1.19.e3, 6.2.3: UET 6/3 464 l. 3    1 ms. has instead:

An ecstatic entered a man's house, and a boy was born to his wife. Having swaggered out, he spoke to the neighbourhood children: A woman has given birth. When he had told the neighbourhood children that a boy had been born to that man's wife, he said to you: Your holy name has not been harmed; XX.
When the ecstatic had taken up position at Inana's gate, his daughter addressed the crowd: My mother's word is absolutely true.
XX lost their clothes: This loincloth isn't big enough! XX said to him: Will you take an oath? Say: It's not XX; it's a loincloth"!
XX complain XX. Why did the rejected (?) ones complain about your XX? XX those who are stronger than you; let them get up and wrestle.
As the gardeners chased some boys away, one stayed where he was while another ate at his pleasure (?). The one who was hiding in the trees could not be encouraged to come out. Afraid, the one who stood where he was and who had been caught said: I will come down to you; and let the others here join me in coming down to you. The gardener replied: Your collaboration is pleasing; I will not have you castigated in your father's house.
They treated an immigrant badly.  It is an abomination to Ninurta.
XX lost his strength XX a thief XX.
