Pure are the cities -- and you are the ones to whom they are allotted. Pure is Dilmun land. Pure is Sumer -- and you are the ones to whom it is allotted. Pure is Dilmun land. Pure is Dilmun land. Virginal is Dilmun land. Virginal is Dilmun land. Pristine is Dilmun land.
He laid her down all alone in Dilmun, and the place where Enki had lain down with his spouse, that place was still virginal, that place was still pristine. He laid her down all alone in Dilmun, and the place where Enki had lain down with Ninsikila, that place was virginal, that place was pristine.
In Dilmun the raven was not yet cawing, the partridge not cackling. The lion did not slay, the wolf was not carrying off lambs, the dog had not been taught to make kids curl up, the pig had not learned that grain was to be eaten.
When a widow has spread malt on the roof, the birds did not yet eat that malt up there. The pigeon then did not tuck the head under its wing.
No eye-diseases said there: I am the eye disease. No headache said there: I am the headache. No old woman belonging to it said there: I am an old woman. No old man belonging to it said there: I am an old man. No maiden in her unwashed state XX in the city. No man dredging a river said there: It is getting dark. No herald made the rounds in his border district.
No singer sang an elulam there. No wailings were wailed in the city's outskirts there.
Ninsikila said to her father Enki: You have given a city. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me? You have given a city, Dilmun. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me? You have given XX. You have given a city. What avails me your giving?
You have given XX, a city that has no river quay. You have given a city. What does your giving avail me?  A city that has no fields, glebe or furrow
(Enki answered Ninsikila:) When Utu steps up into heaven, fresh waters shall run out of the ground for you from the standing vessels (?) on Ezen's (?) shore, from Nanna's radiant high temple, from the mouth of the waters running underground.
May the waters rise up from it into your great basins. May your city drink water aplenty from them. May Dilmun drink water aplenty from them. May your pools of salt water become pools of fresh water. May your city become an emporium on the quay for the Land. May Dilmun become an emporium on the quay for the Land.
At that moment, on that day, and under that sun, when Utu stepped up into heaven, from the standing vessels (?) on Ezen's (?) shore, from Nanna's radiant high temple, from the mouth of the waters running underground, fresh waters ran out of the ground for her.
The waters rose up from it into her great basins. Her city drank water aplenty from them. Dilmun drank water aplenty from them. Her pools of salt water indeed became pools of fresh water. Her fields, glebe and furrows indeed produced grain for her. Her city indeed became an emporium on the quay for the Land. Dilmun indeed became an emporium on the quay for the Land. At that moment, on that day, and under that sun, so it indeed happened.
All alone the wise one, toward Nintur, the country's mother, Enki, the wise one, toward Nintur, the country's mother, was digging his phallus into the dykes, plunging his phallus into the reedbeds. The august one pulled his phallus aside and cried out: No man take me in the marsh.
Enki cried out: By the life's breath of heaven I adjure you. Lie down for me in the marsh, lie down for me in the marsh, that would be joyous. Enki distributed his semen destined for Damgalnuna. He poured semen into Ninhursaŋa's womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki.
But her one month was one day, but her two months were two days, but her three months were three days, but her four months were four days, but her five months were five days, but her six months were six days, but her seven months were seven days, but her eight months were eight days, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Nintur, mother of the country, like fine (?) oil, gave birth to Ninnisig.
In turn Ninnisig went out to the riverbank. Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninnisig not to be kissed? His minister Isimud answered him: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninnisig not to be kissed? My master will sail, let me navigate. He will sail, let me navigate.
First he put his feet in the boat, next he put them on dry land. He clasped her to the bosom, kissed her, Enki poured semen into the womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki. But her one month was one day, but her two months were two days, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Ninnisig, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, gave birth to Ninkura.
In turn Ninkura went out to the riverbank. Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: Is this nice youngster not to be kissed? Is this nice Ninkura not to kissed? His minister Isimud answered him: Kiss this nice youngster. Kiss this nice Ninkura. My master will sail, let me navigate. He will sail, let me navigate.
First he put his feet in the boat, next he put them on dry land. He clasped her to the bosom, kissed her, Enki poured semen into the womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki. But her one month was one day, but her nine months were nine days. In the month of womanhood, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, Ninkura, like fine (?) oil, like fine (?) oil, like oil of abundance, gave birth to Uttu, the exalted (?) woman.
Nintur said to Uttu: Let me advise you, and may you take heed of my advice. Let me speak words to you and may you heed my words. From in the marsh one man is able to see up here, is able to see up here, he is; from in the marsh Enki is able to see up here, is able to see up here, he is. He will set eyes on you.  XX Uttu, the exalted (?) woman XX
(Uttu said:) Bring cucumbers in XX, bring apples with their stems sticking out (?), bring grapes in their clusters, and in the house you will indeed have hold of my halter, O Enki, you will indeed have hold of my halter.
When he was filling with water a second time, he filled the dykes with water, he filled the canals with water, he filled the fallows with water. The gardener in his joy rose (?) from the dust and embraced him: Who are you who XX the garden?
Enki (said to) XX the gardener: He brought him cucumbers in XX, brought him apples with their stems sticking out (?), brought him grapes in their clusters, filled his lap.
Enki made his face attractive and took a staff in his hand. Enki came to a halt at Uttu's, knocked at her house (demanding): Open up, open up. (She asked): Who are you? (He answered:) I am a gardener. Let me give you cucumbers, apples, and grapes for your consent. Joyfully Uttu opened the house. Enki gave Uttu, the exalted (?) woman, cucumbers in XX, gave her apples with their stems sticking out (?), gave her grapes in their clusters.  1 line not in the ms. from Nibru: He poured beer for her in the large ban measure.
Uttu, the exalted (?) woman, XX to the left for him, waved the hands for him. Enki aroused Uttu. He clasped her to the bosom, lying in her crotch, fondled her thighs, fondled her with the hand. He clasped her to the bosom, lying in her crotch, made love to the youngster and kissed her. Enki poured semen into Uttu's womb and she conceived the semen in the womb, the semen of Enki.
Uttu, the beautiful woman, cried out: Woe, my thighs. She cried out: Woe, my body. Woe, my heart. Ninhursaŋa removed the semen from the thighs.
She grew the 'tree' plant, she grew the 'honey' plant, she grew the 'vegetable' plant, she grew the esparto grass (?), she grew the atutu plant, she grew the aštaltal plant, she grew the XX plant, she grew the amharu plant.
Enki was able to see up there from in the marsh, he was able to see up there, he was. He said to his minister Isimud: I have not determined the destiny of these plants. What is this one? What is that one?
His minister Isimud had the answer for him. My master, the 'tree' plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the 'honey' plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. My master, the 'vegetable' plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the alfalfa grass (?), he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it.
My master, the atutu plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the aštaltal plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. My master, the XX plant, he said to him, cut it off for him and Enki ate it. My master, the amharu plant, he said to him, pulled it up for him and Enki ate it. Enki determined the destiny of the plants, had them know it in their hearts.
Ninhursaŋa cursed the name Enki: Until his dying day, I will never look upon him with life-giving eye. The Anuna sat down in the dust. But a fox was able to speak to Enlil: If I bring Ninhursaŋa to you, what will be my reward? Enlil answered the fox: If you bring Ninhursaŋa to me, I shall erect two birch (?) trees for you in my city and you will be renowned.
The fox first anointed his body, first shook out his fur (?), first put kohl on his eyes.
(The fox said to Ninhursaŋa:) I have been to Nibru, but Enlil XX. I have been to Urim, but Nanna XX. I have been to Larsam, but Utu XX. I have been to Unug, but Inana XX. I am seeking refuge with one who is XX.
Ninhursaŋa hastened to the temple. The Anuna slipped off her garment, made XX, determined its destiny and XX. Ninhursaŋa made Enki sit by her vagina.  1 line not in the ms. from Nibru: She placed (?) her hands on XX. and XX. on its outside.
(Ninhursaŋa asked:) My brother, what part of you hurts you? The top of my head (ugu-dili) hurts me. She gave birth to Ab-u out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? The locks of my hair (siki) hurt me. She gave birth to Ninsikila out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My nose (giri) hurts me. She gave birth to Ningiriutud out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My mouth (ka) hurts me. She gave birth to Ninkasi out of it.
My brother, what part of you hurts you? My throat (zi) hurts me. She gave birth to Nazi out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My arm (a) hurts me. She gave birth to Azimua out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My ribs (ti) hurt me. She gave birth to Ninti out of it. My brother, what part of you hurts you? My sides (zag) hurt me. She gave birth to Ensag out of it.
(She said:) For the little ones to whom I have given birth may rewards not be lacking. Ab-u shall become king of the grasses, Ninsikila shall become lord of Magan, Ningiriutud shall marry Ninazu, Ninkasi shall be what satisfies the heart, Nazi shall marry Nindara, Azimua shall marry Ninŋišzida, Ninti shall become the lady of the month, and Ensag shall become lord of Dilmun.
