Say to Aradŋu: this is what Šulgi, your lord, says:
The man to whom I have sent you is not your subordinate -- he will not  accept  1 ms. has instead: change  orders from your hand! How can you ignore what he himself has done too, and that it is indeed so?
As I myself ordered, you were to secure the provinces, and to correctly guide the people and  make them obedient  2 mss. have instead: secure the foundations of the provinces . When you approach the cities of the provinces, inform yourself precisely of their intentions, and inform yourself of the words of their dignitaries. Let my roar  be emitted over all the lands  1 ms. has instead: fill all the lands  1 ms. has instead: cover all the lands . Let my powerful arm, my heroic arm, fall upon all the lands. Let my storm  cover  1 ms. has instead: be released over  the Land. Make the XX disappear into the desert, and the robbers into the fields! Until you reach Apillaša, my 'Sage of the Assembly', XX! Let XX.
That was how I had instructed you. Why have you not acted as I ordered you?
If I do not make my 'Sage of the Assembly' feel just as important as I am, if he does not sit on a throne on a dais, furnished with a high-quality cloth cover (?), if his feet do not rest on a golden footstool, if he is not allowed by his own highest authority both to appoint and then to remove a governor from his function as governor, an official  from his charge  some mss. have instead: from his function as official  1 ms. has instead: from an official , if he does not kill or blind anyone, if he does not elevate his favourite over others -- how else can he secure the provinces?
If you truly love me, you will not bear him a grudge!
You are important,  but you do not even know your own soldiers  1 ms. has instead: and you even know the soldiers that are at Apillaša's disposal . Your eyes have learnt something about  these men  some mss. have instead: Apillaša's men , and about  Apillaša's heroism  some mss. have instead: my heroism .
If  you, Aradŋu, are indeed my servant  some mss. have instead: you, Aradŋu and Apillaša, are indeed my servants , you should both pay attention (?) to my written communications. Come to an understanding, you two! Secure the foundations of the provinces! It is urgent!
