A father sent a message to his son, to a far-off place; at that time the son, having gone to a distant place, was far away.
The city-dwelling father was stricken with illness. He, precious brilliance found in a distant mountain (?), was stricken with illness. He, attractive in XX, a man who made words pleasing, was stricken with illness. He who had a tall figure, and altogether was powerful, was stricken with illness. He, wise in divine plans and an ornament of the assembly, was stricken with illness. He who was a man of truth, god-fearing, was stricken with illness.
He, not eating, was stricken with illness and was languishing away (?). Having closed his mouth, he ate no food and lay famished. According to a tablet XX. The warrior, a wanderer (?), did not move a foot. From (?) his sick XX he was consumed with wailing for his children. Heart anguished, overcome by wailing, the scholar died a violent death in Nibru.
This matter reached his son on the distant journey. Like a son who does not depend closely on his father, he had not returned the message which had been sent (?) to him. Now the son shed tears, threw himself to the dust and performed a musical song for him.
Lu-diŋira out of his inflamed heart wrote a lament: O father who has died a violent death, O  Nannaya  1 ms. has instead: my Nannaya , who through the evil planned against him has been carried off to the nether world, your wife's husband is a thing of the past, forever she will be a widow -- wheels (?) about you like a whirlwind, XX. She used to treat you as a foster-child -- now her reason is gone. Stupor has fallen upon her as if she were about to give birth. She turns the XX, moans (?) like a cow. She XX a lament, and sheds tears. She has covered up its XX and has taken (?) what is just (?).  The one who gathers (?) XX. XX touches you, the heart XX.
The one who (?) rises (?) XX at dawn (?) from among the XX who dwell in XX, the lukur priestess of Ninurta from the XX, has thrown XX. Like a mourning (?) god (?), she XX. Her shouts (?) XX evil. In the midst of the cloister (?) she (?) XX.  XX has made (?) the widespread people XX grain and XX.
The confusion of battles XX the nin-diŋir priestess of Nuska. She tears apart (?) XX for you, XX for you her (?) XX.
Your sons who were treated (?) like king's sons, what do they (?) eat XX, what do they (?) drink XX? They (?) XX honey and ghee. They load the table with (?) oil for you. The tears which they shed for him are tears of compassion. Their mourning (?) for him is that of loving and pure-hearted ones. They are bent over like over-ripe grain. The fledglings return XX, raise XX.
Over the brides of your sons who have said Where, where is he now? your XX has fallen. In their XX has been silenced (?) for you. On the laps of the household XX for you. Your XX sweet sounds XX sleep XX has been XX like XX. The XX lament for you XX does not (?) cease.
O my father, may your heart be at rest. O Nannaya, may your spirit be pleased. The en and ensi XX. Those who have escaped the hand of death XX. The hand of death has been XX in their XX. Death is the favour of the gods, the place where fate is decreed XX. May your offspring XX your knee.
Your daughters have XX for you in their XX. The elders of your city have set up (?) mourning (?) for you. The young women of your city have XX for you. The slave at the grindstone XX has shed (?) tears for you. The house where he is placed (?) XX. He has XX silver, has acquired grain, has XX wide possessions. May the eldest son XX for you your XX firm foundations.
As for your murderer who XX like one who XX the heart, your XX who plotted malice against you -- true (?) execution belongs to the king, the shepherd, your god; true (?) counsel belongs to Utu. May that man be a man accursed, death XX. XX his bones. May the names of his offspring XX. May their possessions XX like birds flying away.
May the XX of the Land XX. May he bring you favourable XX words, may they make you content. O Nannaya, may your spirit be pleased, may your heart be at rest.
Utu, the great lord of the nether world, after turning the dark places to light, will judge your case. May Nanna decree your fate on the day of sleep. Nergal, the Enlil of the underworld, XX before it, may the XX utter your name, may he cause you to eat fresh food. May you be XX of the underworld, and may she have pity on you. May your household bring fresh water to the libation place. May Lord Ninŋišzida XX the house XX. May the mighty Gilgameš XX health for you. May Neti and Etana be your helpers. May the god of the underworld utter prayers for you.
May your god say Enough!, may he XX your fate. May the god of your city XX compassion on you. May he release you from wrath and sin. May he erase the reckoning of the guilt of your house. XX the evil planned against you XX.
May your descendants be happy, XX. May XX. May the protective gods and goddesses XX your XX. May the children you begot be written down for privilege (?). May your daughters have divine favour. May your wife stay well, may your kin multiply. May prosperity and well-being (?) surround them day in day out. May good beer never cease in your libation tube. May the  invocation  1 ms. has instead: incantation  of your house be forever the  invocation  1 ms. has instead: incantation  of your god.
