id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	A1-4	I will sing the song of the man of battle, the man of battle. I will sing the song of Lord Gilgameš, the man of battle, I will sing the song of him with the well-proportioned limbs, the man of battle. I will sing the song of the mighty XX lord, the man of battle.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	A5-11	I will sing the song of the lord with the very black beard, the man of battle. I will sing the song of XX athletic strength, the man of battle. XX the king, the man XX; my king XX, my lord XX garden XX. XX courtyard, XX ŋipar;  1 ms. has instead: XX his mother who bore him spoke to the lord: My king XX in the river, my lord XX your garden.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B3-6	In the great courtyard, without there being any combat, a man XX. She perceived the canopy, the canopy XX, holy Inana perceived the canopy, from the palace of the abzu, she perceived the canopy XX:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B7-12	My wild bull, my XX man, I shall not let you go! Lord Gilgameš, my wild bull, my XX man, I shall not let you go! I shall not let you go to dispense justice in the E-ana! I shall not let you go to pronounce verdicts in my holy ŋipar! I shall not let you go to dispense justice in the E-ana beloved by An! Gilgameš, may you be XX, may you be XX!
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B13-18	(Gilgameš speaks:) I shall certainly not try to take over the portion of Inana in your ŋipar. Ninegala will not XX because of my valorous strength. But Inana, lady, don't you block my way, either! My wish is to catch (?) mountain bulls, to fill the cow-pens. I wish to catch (?) mountain sheep, to fill the sheepfolds. I wish to XX silver and cornelian.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B19-30	The queen spoke with a snort; Inana spoke with a snort: XX say to you. XX say to you. XX, Gilgameš.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B31-36	(An speaks:) Its entrails (?)XX. Its hide XX. Its blood XX.  Inana, it will muddy the waters; it will XX cowpats. My one beloved by An, XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B37-41	He let her hold the leash; An XX.  My child, who does it belong to?  1 ms. has instead: My child, what use would it be?  It will stir up the waters, it will leave XX cowpats XX! If the great bull is let loose, XX Unug! If the great bull is let loose against Gilgameš, XX Unug! I will not give her that which bears my own name.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B42-45	(Inana speaks:) Maybe it will muddy the waters, and will leave gigantic cowpats -- but let my father give me the Bull of Heaven, so I can kill the lord, so I can kill the lord, so I can kill the lord, Lord Gilgameš!
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B46-49	Great An replied to holy Inana: My child, the Bull of Heaven would not have any pasture, as its pasture is on the horizon. Maiden Inana, the Bull of Heaven can only graze where the sun rises. So I cannot give the Bull of Heaven to you!
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B50-51	Holy Inana replied to him: I shall shout, and make my voice reach heaven and earth!
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B52-54	He was frightened, he was frightened. 1 ms. adds here: XX was frightened of Inana.  Great An replied to holy Inana: I shall give her the Bull of Heaven.  instead of approx. lines 52-54, 1 ms. has: She made her voice reach heaven XX, she made her voice reach earth; she made her voice reach heaven XX, she made her voice reach earth. It covered them like a woollen garment, it was spread over them like a linen garment. XX who could speak to her? XX who could speak to her? XX gave XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B55-63	In masculine fashion, the maiden Inana grasped it by the lapis-lazuli tether. Holy Inana brought the Bull of Heaven  out  1 ms. has instead: down . At Unug, the Bull devoured the pasture, and drank the water of the river in great slurps. With each slurp it used up one mile of the river, but its thirst was not satisfied. It devoured the pasture and stripped the land bare. It broke up the palm trees of Unug, as it bent them to fit them into its mouth. When it was standing, the Bull submerged Unug.  The aura  1 ms. has instead: the name  of the Bull of Heaven submerged Kulaba.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B64-67	His musician XX. As he looked up XX, leaning (?) XX   1 ms. has instead: Then Lord Gilgameš XX his musician.  a second ms. has instead: Gilgameš XX his musician Lugal-gabaŋal. My musician, tune your strings, XX give me a drink, XX. XX bronze XX in your hand XX. His musician XX.  a third ms. has instead: XX replied to Lugal-gabaŋal, Lugal-gabaŋal, tune your strings; I wish to have a drink! (Lugal-gabaŋal answers:) XX drink, that is why nothing of yours is important. XX replied to Lugal-gabaŋal.  instead of approx. lines 64-67, a fourth ms. has:  XX drink, lord XX. XX drink, lord XX.  XX Unug XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B68-83	Lord Gilgameš XX. Inana XX the Bull of Heaven. At Unug, the Bull XX, and drank the water of the river in great slurps. With each slurp it used up one mile of the river, but its thirst was not satisfied. It devoured the pasture and stripped the land bare.  1 ms. adds here: His lady XX. Gilgameš XX said, My mother XX, my sister XX, will XX the cattle to their tethering stakes, will XX the sheep to their tethering stakes, will XX to their tethering stakes. Gilgameš XX, Bull of Heaven, you, yes you, XX; you, yes you -- you do not XX. Gilgameš XX.   They will throw your corpse in the deserted streets, and throw your intestines in the broad square. They will send your carcass to the knacker's, and I shall share out your meat in baskets to the widows' sons who are citizens of my city XX. I shall make flasks of your two horns for pouring fine oil to Inana in E-ana.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B84-90	Inana watched from the top of the ramparts. The Bull bellowed in the dust, and Gilgameš walked (?) at its head as Enkidu climbed up the rope of its XX. Their fellow-citizens came along XX. It covered them with dust, like a young calf unused to the yoke.  Enkidu stood behind the Bull and went round XX.  1 ms. has instead: He put XX and seized its tail.  He spoke to his master Gilgameš:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Unknown Provenance	B91-103	Ho, magnificent one, extending your staff of office, born of noble lineage, splendour of the gods, furious bull standing ready for battle, who is respected as the great lord Gilgameš of Unug! Your mother was truly skilled in bearing children, and your nurse was truly skilled in suckling her charges!  1 ms. adds: Lord born of noble lineage, XX  Do not fear -- the warrior without strength XX himself (?). There where the road is straight XX. XX axe XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A1-7	I will sing the song of the man of battle, the man of battle. I will sing the song of Lord Gilgameš, the man of battle, I will sing the song of the lord with the very black beard, the man of battle. I will sing the song of him with the well-proportioned limbs, the man of battle. I will sing the song of him in his prime (?), the man of battle. I will sing the song of him who batters the wicked, the man of battle. The king, the lord, having XX as his mother who bore him XX, wishing to wash (?) in the river.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A8-18	My lord, having sought entry into the garden planted with junipers, the lord, coming from the ŋipar, sheared the wool of the fleecy sheep XX; XX he sat down XX. The king XX bending XX with the oar; the prince covered XX with the oar, as if it was of flourishing reed. You covered their wicked ones, as if XX, with water. He gave XX to his mother who bore him. In the wide courtyard XX, Gilgameš XX.  In the great courtyard XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A19-21	Then XX the canopy XX. Holy Inana perceived the canopy, from the palace of the abzu, she perceived the canopy:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A22-27	My wild bull, my man, I shall not let you XX! Gilgameš, I shall not let you XX! I shall not let you dispense justice in my E-ana! I shall not let you pronounce verdicts in my holy ŋipar! I shall not let you dispense justice in the E-ana beloved by An! Gilgameš, may you XX, may I XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A28-39	The king, XX his mouth, the king XX to his mother who bore him. Gilgameš XX to Ninsumun XX: O mother who bore me, how XX! By the door of the great gate XX. From the crenellations of the wall XX: My wild bull, my man, I shall not let you go XX! Gilgameš, I shall not let you go XX! You dispensed justice in my E-ana -- I shall not let you go! You pronounced verdicts in my holy ŋipar -- I shall not let you go, in his beloved XX E-ana!"
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	A40-41	When he had spoken thus to the mother who bore him, the mother who bore him replied to Gilgameš:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	B1-6	Holy Inana XX. An XX. XX the bond of heaven. An XX to holy Inana: My child, XX. Inana replied XX:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	C1-5	
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D1-4	
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D5-9	My musician, Lugal-gabaŋar, perform your song, tune your strings! Give me beer to drink! Fill my bronze jug again! XX Lugal-gabaŋar replied to his master, Gilgameš: My master, you may eat, and you may drink -- but as for me, how does this matter concern me?
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D10-15	To defeat the Bull, XX, Gilgameš, to defeat the Bull, XX. XX his harness of fifty text: five-sixths minas. XX his sword weighing seven talents and thirty minas. XX his battle axe. My mother who bore me XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D16-23	His sister XX. His mother who bore him XX. Peštur, his little sister XX. Gilgameš XX My mother who bore me, in the house (?) of Enki (?) XX. Peštur, the little sister, XX, will bring back the cattle to their tethering stakes XX, will bring back the sheep to their tethering stakes XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D24-32	Bull of Heaven, you -- you, XX, yes, you! You crush them XX, and I crush them XX. If you crush them, XX They shall consign your hide to the streets XX. They shall consign your intestines to the broad square XX. The widows' sons of my city shall each take their share of your meat in baskets. They shall consign your carcass to the knacker's, and I shall turn your two horns into flasks for pouring fine oil to Inana in E-ana.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D33-38	The Bull XX in the dust. Gilgameš XX and Enkidu XX. Their fellow-citizens XX. XX with dust, like a young calf unused to the yoke. Enkidu stood by (?) the Bull's head and spoke to Gilgameš:
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D39-44	Ho, magnificent one, extending your staff of office, born of noble lineage, splendour of the gods, furious-hearted bull, standing ready for battle, warrior, XX your hand XX! The people XX, the people XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D45-48	When Enkidu had spoken thus to Gilgameš, Gilgameš himself smote its skull with his axe weighing seven talents. The Bull reared up so high, so high that it overbalanced. It spattered like rain, it spread itself out like the harvested crop.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D49-52	The king took his knife in his hand, just as if he were a master chef. He hit Inana with a haunch, he made her flee away like a pigeon, and demolished those ramparts. Standing by (?) the Bull's head, the king wept bitter tears: Just as I can destroy you, so shall I do the same to her (?).
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Me-Turan	D53-59	As he spoke, he consigned its hide to the streets, he consigned its intestines to the broad square, and the widows' sons of his city each took their share of its meat in baskets. He consigned its carcass to the knacker's, and turned its two horns into flasks for pouring fine oil to Inana in E-ana. For the death of the Bull of Heaven: holy Inana, it is sweet to praise you!
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Ur III	A1-8	Seed of the ŋipar = Gilgameš? XX; he sat on the XX; that which was in the marsh, my king, to bend that which was in the marsh with the oar, the lord covered it with water with the oar, as if they were flourishing reeds. That which exceeded, as if it was a reed (?) XX, he covered with water. In the wide courtyard XX of the temple of Inana Gilgameš XX.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Ur III	A9-13	My king, having sought entry into the garden of junipers, the seed of the ŋipar XX the sheep of the queen (?) XX sheared (?) the wool; he sat on the XX. He leant (?) over the marsh; my king leant (?) over the marsh; he bent it with the oar.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Ur III	A14-15	The lord covered it with water as if they were flourishing reeds; that which exceeded, as if it was a reed (?) XX, he covered it with water.
t.1.8.1.2	Gilgameš and the bull of heaven	Ur III	B1-4	I (?) shall not try to take over the portion of Inana in the ŋipar; XX shall not cover my valiant arm with a garment (?)!
