id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		A1-15	The wild bull with brindled thighs, whose house is noble! My king, the wild bull with brindled thighs, whose house is noble! Pabilsaŋ, the wild bull with brindled thighs, whose house is noble! His house, the house of Larag, is noble, his house is noble! His city, a mighty city, is abundant, and his house is noble! The warrior's house is the house of Larag; Lord Pabilsaŋ's city is a mighty city XX. His birthplace was the shrine Nibru XX. The place where he drank good milk was the house XX. From the place, the pure place, XX. Isin, the unique house XX. The place which the bull embraces XX. Like a scorpion rising up from among the thorns, he is a fearsome scorpion; like a wolf rising up from his lair, he is likely to growl; like a lion rising up in the pathway, he is likely to beat XX.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		A16-21	At that time, he wished to dig (?) in the meadows; the lord wished to dig (?) in the meadows. Lord Pabilsaŋ wished to dig (?) in the meadows; in all the meadows of Isin, my king wished to dig (?). So then my king set off for Nibru.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		A22-36	And as the warrior Pabilsaŋ set off in Enlil's direction, as he he set off, now he turned (?) in front of that house in Isin. And then my lady in Isin came out XX. At the spacious house, the house of Isin, she XX her hair, then she XX the hair in curls (?) XX. Her headdress was loosened. She addressed Pabilsaŋ joyfully: Good-looking XX the house of Isin! Warrior Pabilsaŋ XX borne to Nintur! You who are travelling from (?) Larag to XX that house in Isin, say to your father, May she be my spouse! Say further to Enlil, XX with me! Fix your sights on it, fix your sights on it, and may you be its lord! The house of Isin XX. May you, Pabilsaŋ, be its lord, and may I be its lady!
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		B1-3	(Enlil speaks:) XX and may its flax be flax! XX and may its grain be grain! XX may its XX be good for eating.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		B4-13	And now, under that very sun and on that day, so it really happened. XX waved their tails in the Kir-sig watercourse, waved XX. XX established the house XX. XX the most righteous XX. XX the good bull-calf, the ruler XX. XX established the house XX. XX its flax was flax. XX its grain was grain. XX its XX was good for eating.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		C1-7	Ninisina XX. In the Kir-sig watercourse XX their tails XX Isin XX. Joyfully his son married a wife XX; joyfully Lord Pabilsaŋ married Ninisina XX. She XX him the digging implement for the Kir-sig watercourse. XX their tails XX Isin XX for him.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		C8-13	Enlil stood beside the river and spoke to it. He stood beside the Kir-sig watercourse and XX: River, may XX your outlet be XX for him. May you establish XX the house here. XX the most righteous XX, XX great wild bull XX.
t.1.7.8	Pabilsaŋ's journey to Nibru		D1-20	But Pabilsaŋ would not eat (?) the bull in his mouth; nor would XX Pabilsaŋ eat (?) the sheep in his mouth. He did not rub the XX pot XX. Don't go XX to XX. They raised the XX lament, and put XX. They raised Lord Pabilsaŋ, and put XX. They set him down (?) in the city of his sister. His sister came out to him from the house.  But Pabilsaŋ would not eat (?) the bull in his mouth; nor would XX Pabilsaŋ eat (?) the sheep in his mouth. He did not rub the XX pot XX. Don't go XX!
