id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		1-10	The mistress who, having all the great divine powers, deserves the throne-dais; Inana who, having all the great divine powers, occupies a holy throne-dais; Inana who stands in E-ana as a source of wonder -- once, the young woman went up into the mountains, holy Inana went up into the mountains. To detect falsehood and justice, to inspect the Land closely, to identify the criminal against the just, she went up into the mountains. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		11-14	My lady stands among wild bulls at the foot of the mountains, she possesses fully the divine powers. Inana stands among stags in the mountain tops, she possesses fully the divine powers. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		15-22	Then the XX left heaven, left the earth and climbed up into the mountains. Inana left heaven, left the earth and climbed up into the mountains. She left E-ana in Unug and climbed up into the mountains. She left the giguna in Zabalam and climbed up into the mountains. As she had gone up from E-ana, XX ŋipar XX. Inana XX her cloak XX and climbed up into the mountains. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		23-41	After XX had tired XX with questions and searching, may XX come alone (?) to the back-room of my shrine. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		42-58	He will XX its feet, he Enki says. Full of wisdom he adds the following words: Raven, I shall give you instructions. Pay attention to my instructions. Raven, in the shrine I shall give you instructions. Pay attention to my instructions. First, chop up (?) and chew (?) the kohl for the incantation priests of Eridug with the oil and water which are to be found in a lapis-lazuli bowl and are placed in the back-room of the shrine. Then plant them in a trench for leeks in a vegetable plot; then you should pull out (?) XX. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		59-71	The raven paid exact attention to the instructions of his master. It chopped up (?) and chewed (?) the kohl for the incantation priests of Eridug with the oil and water which were to be found in a lapis-lazuli bowl and were placed in the back-room of the shrine. It planted them in a trench for leeks in a vegetable plot; then it pulled out (?) XX. A plant growing in a plot like leeks, an oddity  standing up  1 ms. has instead: sticking up  like a leek stalk -- who had ever seen such a thing before?  That a bird like the raven, performing the work of man, should make the counterweight blocks of the shadouf bump up and settle down; that it should make the counterweight blocks of the shadouf bump down and rise up -- who had ever seen such a thing before?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		72-90	Then the raven rose up from this oddity, and climbed up it -- a date palm! -- with a harness. It rubbed off the kohl (?) XX which it had stuffed into its beak onto the pistils (?). XX just as with a date palm, which XX the ground, a tree growing forever -- who had ever seen such a thing before? Its scaly leaves surround its palmheart. Its dried palm-fronds serve as weaving material. Its shoots are like surveyor's gleaming line; they are fit for the king's fields. Its (?) branches are used in the king's palace for cleaning. Its dates, which are piled up near purified barley, are fit for the temples of the great gods. That a bird like the raven, performing the work of man, makes the counterweight blocks of the shadouf bump up and settle down; that it makes the counterweight blocks of the shadouf bump down and rise up -- who had ever seen such a thing before? At his master's command, the raven stepped into the abzu. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		91-111	XX Šu-kale-tuda was his name. XX, a son (?) of Igi-sigsig, the XX, was to water garden plots and build the installation for a well among the plants, but not a single plant remained there, not even one: he had pulled them out by their roots and destroyed them. Then what did the stormwind bring? It blew the dust of the mountains into his eyes. When he tried to wipe the corner of his eyes with his hand, he got some of it out, but was not able to get all of it out. He raised his eyes to the lower land and saw the exalted gods of the land where the sun rises. He raised his eyes to the highlands and saw the exalted gods of the land where the sun sets. He saw a solitary ghost. He recognised a solitary god by her appearance. He saw someone who fully possesses the divine powers. He was looking at someone whose destiny was decided by the gods. In that plot -- had he not approached it five or 10 times before? -- there stood a single shady tree at that place. The shady tree was a Euphrates poplar with broad shade. Its shade was not diminished in the morning, and it did not change either at midday or in the evening.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		112-128	Once, after my lady had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after Inana had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after she had gone around Elam and Subir, after she had gone around the intertwined horizon of heaven, the mistress became so tired that when she arrived there she lay down by its roots. Šu-kale-tuda noticed her from beside his plot. Inana XX the loincloth (?) of the seven divine powers over her genitals. XX the girdle of the seven divine powers over her genitals XX. XX with the shepherd Ama-ušumgal-ana XX. XX over her holy genitals XX. Šu-kale-tuda undid the loincloth (?) of seven divine powers and got her to lie down in her resting place. He had intercourse with her and kissed her there. After he had had intercourse with her and kissed her, he went back to beside his plot. When day had broken and Utu had risen, the woman inspected herself closely, holy Inana inspected herself closely.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		129-138	Then the woman was considering what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She filled the wells of the Land with blood, so it was blood that the irrigated orchards of the Land yielded, it was blood that the slave who went to collect firewood drank, it was blood that the slavegirl who went out to draw water drew, and it was blood that the black-headed people drank. No one knew when this would end. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere in all the lands could she find the man who had had intercourse with her. -- Now, what did one say to another? What further did one add to the other in detail?
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		139-159	The boy went home to his father and spoke to him; Šu-kale-tuda went home to his father and spoke to him: My father, I was to water garden plots and build the installation for a well among the plants, but not a single plant remained there, not even one: I had pulled them out by their roots and destroyed them. Then what did the stormwind bring? It blew the dust of the mountains into my eyes. When I tried to wipe the corner of my eyes with my hand, I got some of it out, but was not able to get all of it out. I raised my eyes to the lower land, and saw the high gods of the land where the sun rises. I raised my eyes to the highlands, and saw the exalted gods of the land where the sun sets. I saw a solitary ghost. I recognised a solitary god by her appearance. I saw someone who possesses fully the divine powers. I was looking at someone whose destiny was decided by the gods. In that plot -- had I not approached it  five or ten  1 ms. has instead: three or six hundred  times before? -- there stood a single shady tree at that place. The shady tree was a Euphrates poplar with broad shade. Its shade was not diminished in the morning, and it did not change either at midday or in the evening.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		160-167	Once, after my lady had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after Inana had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after she had gone around Elam and Subir, after she had gone around the intertwined horizon of heaven, the mistress became so tired that when she arrived there she lay down by its roots. I noticed her from beside my plot. I had intercourse with her and kissed her there. Then I went back to beside my plot.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		168-176	Then the woman was considering what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She filled the wells of the Land with blood, so it was blood that the irrigated orchards of the Land yielded, it was blood that the slave who went to collect firewood drank, it was blood that the slavegirl who went out to draw water drew, and it was blood that the black-headed people drank. No one knew when this would end. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere could she find the man who had had intercourse with her.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		177-184	His father replied to the boy; his father replied to Šu-kale-tuda: My son, you should join the city-dwellers,  your brothers  1 ms. has instead: who are your brothers . Go at once to the black-headed people, your brothers! Then this woman will not find you among the mountains. He joined the city-dwellers, his brothers all together. He went at once to the black-headed people, his brothers, and the woman did not find him among the mountains.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		185-193	Then the woman was considering a second time what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She mounted on a cloud, took (?) her seat there and XX. The south wind and a fearsome storm flood went before her. The pilipili one of the cultic personnel in Inana's entourage and a dust storm followed her. Abba-šušu, Inim-kur-dugdug, XX adviser XX. Seven times seven helpers (?) stood beside her in the high desert. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere could she find the man who had intercourse with her.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		194-205	The boy went home to his father and spoke to him; Šu-kale-tuda went home to his father and spoke to him: My father, the woman of whom I spoke to you, this woman was considering a second time what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She mounted on a cloud, took (?) her seat there and XX. The south wind and a fearsome storm flood went before her. The pilipili one of the cultic personnel in Inana's entourage and a dust storm followed her. Abba-šušu, Inim-kur-dugdug, XX adviser XX. Seven times seven helpers (?) stood beside her in the high desert. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere could she find the man who had intercourse with her.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		206-213	His father replied to the boy; his father replied to Šu-kale-tuda: My son, you should join the city-dwellers, your brothers. Go at once to the black-headed people, your brothers! Then this woman will not find you among the mountains. He joined the city-dwellers, his brothers all together. He went at once to the black-headed people, his brothers, and the woman did not find him among the mountains.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		214-220	Then the woman was considering a third time what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She took a single XX in her hand. She blocked the highways of the Land with it. Because of her, the black-headed people XX. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere could she find the man who had intercourse with her.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		221-230	The boy went home to his father and spoke to him; Šu-kale-tuda went home to his father and spoke to him: My father, the woman of whom I spoke to you, this woman was considering a third time what should be destroyed because of her genitals; Inana was considering what should be done because of her genitals. She took a single XX in her hand. She blocked the highways of the Land with it. Because of her, the black-headed people XX. She said: I will search everywhere for the man who had intercourse with me. But nowhere could she find the man who had intercourse with her.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		231-238	His father replied to the boy; his father replied to Šu-kale-tuda: My son, you should join the city-dwellers, your brothers. Go at once to the black-headed people, your brothers! Then this woman will not find you among the mountains. He joined the city-dwellers, his brothers all together. He went at once to the black-headed people, his brothers, and the woman did not find him among the mountains.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		239-255	When day had broken and Utu had risen, the women inspected herself closely, holy Inana inspected herself closely. Ah, who will compensate me? Ah, who will pay (?) for what happened to me? Should it not be the concern of my own father, Enki? Holy Inana directed her steps to the abzu of Eridug and, because of this, prostrated herself on the ground before him and stretched out her hands to him: Father Enki, I should be compensated! What's more, someone should  pay (?)  1 ms. has instead: make up  for what happened to me! I shall only re-enter my shrine E-ana satisfied after you have handed over that man to me from the abzu. Enki said All right! to her. He said So be it! to her. With that holy Inana went out from the abzu of Eridug. She stretched herself like a rainbow across the sky and reached thereby as far as the earth. She let the south wind pass across, she let the north wind pass across. From fear,  1 ms. adds: solitary  Šu-kale-tuda tried to make himself as tiny as possible, but the woman had found him among the mountains.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		256-261	Holy Inana now spoke to Šu-kale-tuda: How XX? XX dog XX! XX ass XX! XX pig XX!
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		262-281	Šu-kale-tuda replied to holy Inana: My lady (?), I was to water garden plots and build the installation for a well among the plants, but not a single plant remained there, not even one: I had pulled them out by their roots and destroyed them. Then what did the stormwind bring? It blew the dust of the mountains into my eyes. When I tried to wipe the corner of my eyes with my hand, I got some of it out, but was not able to get all of it out. I raised my eyes to the lower land, and saw the exalted gods of the land where the sun rises. I raised my eyes to the highlands, and saw the exalted gods of the land where the sun sets. I saw a solitary ghost. I recognised a solitary god by her appearance. I saw someone who possesses fully the divine powers. I was looking at someone whose destiny was decided by the gods. In that plot -- had I not approached it three or six hundred times before? -- there stood a single shady tree at that place. The shady tree was a Euphrates poplar with broad shade. Its shade was not diminished in the morning, and it did not change either at midday or in the evening.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		282-289	Once, after my lady had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after Inana had gone around the heavens, after she had gone around the earth, after she had gone around Elam and Subir, after she had gone around the intertwined horizon of heaven, the mistress became so tired that when she arrived there she lay down by its roots. I noticed her from beside my plot. I had intercourse with her and kissed her there. Then I went back to beside my plot.
t.1.3.3	Inana and Šu-kale-tuda		290-310	When he had spoken thus to her, XX hit XX. XX added (?) XX. XX changed (?) him XX. She (?) determined his destiny XX, holy Inana spoke to Šu-kale-tuda: So! You shall die! What is that to me? Your name, however, shall not be forgotten. Your name shall exist in songs and make the songs sweet. A young singer shall perform them most pleasingly in the king's palace. A shepherd shall sing them sweetly as he tumbles his butter churn. A young shepherd shall carry your name to where he grazes the sheep. The palace of the desert shall be your home.Šu-kale-tuda XX  Because XX destiny was determined, praise be to XX Inana!
