id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		A1-7	Holy Inana XX. The hero, youthful Utu, XX. At dead of night XX. E-ana XX. Inana XX. The great (?) heavens XX.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		B1-6	XX E-ana comes forth from heaven, XX the lady of heaven set her mind to capturing the great heavens, XX Inana set her mind to capturing the great heavens, XX set her mind to capturing the great heavens from the XX of heaven, XX youthful Utu, she set her mind to capturing the great heavens.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		B7-9	Holy Inana spoke to her brother the hero, youthful Utu: XX, I want to tell you something -- pay attention to my speech. XX, my twin, I want to tell you something -- pay attention to my speech.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		B10-15	Her brother the hero, youthful Utu, answered holy Inana: My sister, I swear an oath by the life of heaven, I swear by the life of the rainbow (?) of heaven, my XX, XX, I swear by the life of my throne, by my majesty: I will follow what my sister says to me, I will follow what holy Inana says to me.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		B16-23	The maiden Inana answered her brother the hero, youthful Utu: XX, my spouse (?), has made love to me, has kissed me. I wanted XX for him but XX he did not give it to him. I hastened (?) with him XX but majestic An would not give him E-ana. The heavens are ours, the earth is ours: E-ana should be captured from An. After you have taken XX, listen to what I say to you. Examine XX for me, you must observe these instructions: XX the evil wind, the south wind, against me.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		C1-4	(Adagbir speaks:) XX great net. XX the flood. XX the fisherman.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		C5-13	Holy Inana embarked (?) on the XX. The barge XX. The rope XX. The south wind, that south wind, rose up. The evil wind, that evil wind, rose up. In the distant heavens XX. Hienhi-sag XX. The fisherman XX. The reed thickets and the tall reeds XX.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		C14-18	Inana spoke to Adagbir: Youthful Utu XX. The barge XX.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D1-4	(Inana speaks:) I XX. XX the way XX.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D5-12	Adagbir answered holy Inana: My lady, you cannot XX. Your divinity XX. The fisherman XX the south wind. My lady, if you travel on the barge, and he raises the south wind, that south wind, and he raises the evil wind, that evil wind, barges and small boats will sink in the marshes.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D13-15	Whenever (?) he approached the XX with his great net, as (?) it came out of the flood, the swelling sea, it lashed the water and made an evil XX.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D16-19	Holy Inana answered the fisherman: If you are to find XX E-ana XX and I am to gaze in admiration XX at that place, you said XX the narrow passage.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D20-22	Adagbir answered holy Inana: XX through the reed thickets and the tall reeds. For you XX find E-ana, which comes forth from heaven.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D23-25	Adagbir, XX of Enlil, XX through the reed thickets and the tall reeds. She gazed in admiration at E-ana which comes forth from heaven.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D26-28	Šul-a-zida, An's herdsman, grasped the cosmic tethering rope in his hands. After he had brought the XX forth from the sky, he overcame the protective deities. He XX and kept it below the horizon.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D29-32	Having drunk cleansing water from the Ulaya river, Inana stamped on the scorpion and cut off its tail. Like a lion it bellowed in an angry roar but its cries died down. XX she threw it XX and made it secure.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D33-38	Having heard its XX cries, XX poured forth the XX, the clay of creation, XX and laid it XX.  XX the great lady of heaven delivered those words to An.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D39-45	Having heard those words, An slapped his thighs in XX, his voice filled with sighs of grief: What has my child done? She has become greater than me! What has Inana done? She has become greater than me! From now on, the normal length of daylight becomes shorter, and daylight converts to night-time. From today, when the day's watch is three units long, daylight is equal to night-time. And now, when day began, it was indeed so.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D46-55	An, who created gods and humankind, gazed at holy Inana  1 ms. adds: and addressed the favourite wife who travels by his side , unable to describe this arrogance, this arrogance -- An was unable to describe  1 ms. adds: to Inana  this arrogance, this arrogance: My child, XX you did not say XX -- you were able to capture E-ana! Inana, XX you did not say XX -- you were able to capture E-ana! E-ana should be as firm as heaven,  it should not be toppled  1 ms. has instead: its attractions should never be exhausted . Its name should be 'The Settlement of the Land'.  1 ms. adds: It should have no rival.  Mankind, all of the people, should prostrate themselves at her (?) feet. And now, under that sun and on that day, it was indeed so.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D56-60	She had captured E-ana from An! She secured it XX. Now Inana speaks of the E-ana as the house that is the place of the lady. The goddess who has attained her triumphant position, Inana who has attained her triumphant position, declares in the good place: I have captured E-ana from An.
t.1.3.5	Inana and An		D61-62	Because you are unmatched among the Great Princes, maiden Inana, praising you is magnificent!
