id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		1-6	Created like An, O son of Enlil, Ninurta, created like Enlil, born by Nintur, mightiest of the Anuna gods, who came forth from the mountain range, imbued with terrible awesomeness, son of Enlil, confident in his strength, my sovereign, you are magnificent -- let your magnificence therefore be praised. Ninurta, you are magnificent -- let your magnificence therefore be praised.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		7-12	Sovereign of all the lands, in your massive might, warrior of Enlil, in your great might, fierce warrior, you have taken up the divine powers which are like heaven, son of Enlil, you have taken up the divine powers which are like the earth, you have taken up the divine powers of the mountains, which are heavy as heaven, you have taken up the divine powers of Eridug, which are huge as the earth.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		13-15	You have made the gods prostrate (?) themselves before you. You have made the Anuna salute (?) you. Ninurta, you are made complete by heroic strength.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		16-17	The utterance of the sovereign is a storm XX. The word of Lord Ninurta is a storm XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		18-23	To the hostile mountains XX. To the fortress of the rebellious land XX.  Lord, frighteningly fierce, XX. Fierce in heaven and earth, XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		24-25	His angry utterance made a corpse of the mountains. His fierce countenance XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		26-29	Horned wild bull XX. Wild ram and stag XX. The great wild bull of the mountains XX from its XX. He put his XX, the strength in battle, in his belt.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		30-40	The sovereign, with his heroic arms, Ninurta, the son of Enlil, in his great might, brought forth the Six-headed wild ram from the shining, lofty house. He brought forth the Warrior dragon from the great fortress of the mountains. He brought forth the Magilum boat from XX his abzu. He brought forth the Bison from his battle dust. He brought forth the Mermaid from the limits of heaven and earth. He brought forth the Gypsum from the soil of the mountain range. He brought forth the Strong copper from the shattered mountain range. He brought forth the Anzud bird from the halub-haran tree. He brought forth the Seven-headed serpent from the XX of the mountains.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		41-46	He mustered them all before him XX. He spoke XX. He was unhappy XX. He spoke XX. He seized the axe XX. He took his XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		47-51	The warrior XX made a corpse of the mountains. Lord Ninurta, who destroys (?) XX, made a corpse of the mountains. He piled up XX. The sovereign, with his heroic strength, wreaked his vengeance (?). The warrior Ninurta, with his heroic strength, wreaked his vengeance (?).
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		52-54	On his shining chariot, which inspires terrible awe, he hung his captured wild bulls on the axle and hung his captured cows on the cross-piece of the yoke.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		55-63	He hung the Six-headed wild ram on the dust-guard. He hung the Warrior dragon on the seat. He hung the Magilum boat on the XX. He hung the Bison on the beam. He hung the Mermaid on the foot-board. He hung the Gypsum on the forward part of the yoke. He hung the Strong copper on the inside pole pin (?). He hung the Anzud bird on the front guard. He hung the Seven-headed serpent on the shining cross-beam.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		64-69	Lord Ninurta stepped into his battle-worthy chariot. Ud-ane, the all-seeing god, and Lugal-anbara, the bearded (?) lord, went before him, and the awesome one of the mountains, Lugal-kur-dub, the XX of Lord Ninurta, followed behind him.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		70-72	The lion who XX from the abzu, who XX An's awesomeness and radiance -- the Anuna, the great gods XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		73-75	As the sovereign swept on like the deluge, as Ninurta, storm of the rebellious land, swept on like the deluge, he rumbled like a storm on the horizon.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		76-79	When, at Enlil's command, he was making his way towards E-kur, the warrior of the gods was levelling the Land; and before he had yet approached Nibru from afar, Nuska, the chancellor of Enlil, came forth from the E-kur to meet him.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		80-82	He greeted Lord Ninurta: My sovereign, perfect warrior, heed yourself. Ninurta, perfect warrior, heed yourself.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		83-86	Your radiance has covered Enlil's temple like a cloak. When you step into your chariot, whose creaking is a pleasant sound, heaven and earth tremble. When you raise your arm XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		87-91	The Anuna, the great gods XX. Do not frighten your father in his residence. Do not frighten Enlil in his residence. May your father give you gifts because of your heroic strength. May Enlil give you gifts because of your heroic strength.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		92-97	O sovereign, shackle of An, first among the gods, seal-bearer of Enlil, life-source of E-kur, O warrior, because you have toppled the mountains your father need send out no other god beside you. Ninurta, because you have toppled the mountains Enlil need send out no other god beside you.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		98-101	While these words were yet in Nuska's mouth, Ninurta put the whip and goad away in the rope-box. He leaned his mace, the strength in battle, against the box and entered into the temple of Enlil.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		102-107	He directed his captive wild bulls into the temple. He directed his captive cows, like the wild bulls, into the temple. He laid out the booty of his plundered cities. The Anuna were amazed XX. Enlil, the Great Mountain, made obeisance to him, and Ašimbabbar prayed to him.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		108-112	The great mother Ninlil, from within her Ki-ur, spoke admiringly to Lord Ninurta: O wild bull, with fierce horns raised, son of Enlil, you have struck blows in the mountains. Warrior, Lord Ninurta, you have XX. You have XX the rebellious land.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		113-118	Lord Ninurta answered her: My mother, I alone cannot XX with you XX. Ninlil, I alone cannot XX with you, for me alone XX. Battle arrayed like heaven -- no one can rival me (?). Like the deluge XX. Smashing the mountains like reed huts XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		119-124	My battle, like an onrushing flood, overflowed in the mountains. With a lion's body and lion's muscles, it rose up in the rebellious land. The gods have become worried and flee (?) to the mountain ranges. They beat their wings like a flock of small birds. They stand hiding in the grass like wild bulls XX. No one can confront my radiance, heavy as heaven.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		125-127	Because I am the lord of the terraced mountain ranges, in every direction XX. Because I have subjugated these mountain ranges of alabaster and lapis lazuli, the Anuna hide like mice.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		128-134	Now I have reestablished my heroic strength in the mountains. On my right, I bear my Mows-down-a-myriad. On my left, I bear my Crushes-a-myriad. I bear my Fifty-toothed-storm, my heavenly mace. I bear the hero who comes down from the great mountains, my No-resisting-this-storm. I bear the weapon which devours corpses like a dragon, my agasilig axe. I bear my XX.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		135-139	I bear my XX. I bear the alkad net of the rebellious land, my alkad net. I bear that from which the mountains cannot escape, my šušgal net. I bear the seven-mouthed mušmah serpent, the slayer, my spike (?). I bear that which strips away the mountains, the sword, my heavenly dagger.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		140-145	I bear the deluge of battle, my fifty-headed mace. I bear the storm that attacks humans, my bow and quiver. I bear those which carry off the temples of the rebellious land, my throw-stick and shield. I bear the helper of men, my spear. I bear that which brings forth light like the day, my Obliterator-of-the-mountains. I bear the maintainer of the people in heaven and earth, my The-enemy-cannot-escape.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		146-151	I bear that whose awesome radiance covers the Land, which is grandly suited for my right hand, finished in gold and lapis lazuli, whose presence is amazing, my Object-of-trust. I bear the perfect weapon, exceedingly magnificent, trustworthy in battle, having no equal, well-suited for my wrist on the battlefield, my fifty-headed mace, I bear the weapon which consumes the rebellious land like fire, my fifty-headed club.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		152-158	Let my father therefore bring in my battle trophies and weapons for me. Let Enlil bathe my heroic arms. Let him pour holy water on the fierce arms which bore my weapons. Let him set up a holy dais in the throne room for me. Let him set my heavenly chariot upon a pedestal. Let him tether my captured warriors there like butting bulls. Let him have my captured kings make obeisance to me there, as to the light of heaven.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		159-163	I am the strong one, unopposed in the mountains, I am Ninurta -- let them prostrate themselves at my name. I am the exceedingly mighty lion-headed one of Enlil, whom he engendered in his strength. The storm of heaven, shackle of the gods, I am the one whom An in his great might has chosen.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		164-167	I am the XX, the life-source of Inana. I am the warrior, destined with Enki to be suited for the fearsome divine powers. Let my kingship be manifest unto the ends of heaven and earth. I am most able among the gods -- let me be imbued with great awesomeness.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		168-174	Let my beloved city, the sanctuary Nibru, raise its head as high as heaven. Let my city be pre-eminent among the cities of my brothers. Let my temple rise (?) the highest XX among the temples of my brothers. Let the territory of my city be the freshwater well of Sumer. Let the Anuna, my brother gods, bow down there. Let their flying birds establish nests in my city. Let their refugees refresh themselves in my shade.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		175-179	As Ninurta went out from Enlil's temple, the most bright-faced of warriors, Ninkarnuna, having heard the favourable pronouncement of Ninurta, stepped before Lord Ninurta and prayed to him:
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		180-186	My sovereign, may you be well-disposed towards your beloved city. Lord Ninurta, may you be well-disposed towards your beloved city. May you be well-disposed towards the sanctuary Nibru, your beloved city. When you enter E-šu-me-ša, your beloved temple, alone, tell your wife, young lady Ninnibru, what is in your heart, tell her what is on your mind. Make an enduring favourable pronouncement to her for the king.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		187-194	The content of that prayer of the offspring of a prince, Ninkarnuna, his sprinkling Ninurta's heart with an offering of cool water, and the matter of prosperity about which he spoke were pleasing to Ninurta's heart as he went in procession to E-šu-me-ša to manifest the eternal divine powers. Lord Ninurta gazed approvingly at Ninkarnuna.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		195-198	When Ninurta entered E-šu-me-ša, his beloved temple, alone, he told his wife, young lady Ninnibru, what was in his heart, he told her what was on his mind and he made an enduring favourable pronouncement to her for the king.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		199-201	The warrior, whose heroism is manifest, Ninurta, the son of Enlil, has firmly grounded his greatness in Enlil's sanctuary.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		202-207	Lord who has destroyed the mountains, who has no rival, who butts angrily in that magnificent battle, great warrior who goes forth in his XX might, strong one, deluge of Enlil, Ninurta, magnificent child of E-kur, pride of the father who engendered him, it is sweet to praise you.
t.1.6.1	Ninurta's return to Nibru: a šir-gida to Ninurta		208	Šir-gida of Ninurta.
