id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		1-4	So come on now, you heroic bearer of a sceptre of wide-ranging power! Noble glory of the gods, angry bull standing ready for a fight! Young Lord Gilgameš, cherished in Unug!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		5-21	In Unug people are dying, and souls are full of distress. People are lost -- that fills me with dismay. I lean out over the city wall: bodies in the water make the river almost overflow. That is what I see: that people die thus, which fills me with despair; that the end of life is unavoidable; that the grave, the all-powerful underworld, will spare no one; that no one is tall enough to block off the underworld; that no one is broad enough to cover over the underworld -- the boundary that a man cannot cross at the final end of life. By the life of my own mother Ninsumun, and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! My personal god Enki, Lord Nudimmud,  I will complete XX there. I will bring XX there.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		22-28	His slave Enkidu answered him: XX if you want to set off into the mountains, Utu should know about it from you. If you want to set off into the Mountains of Cedar-felling, Utu should know about it from you. A decision that concerns the mountains is Utu's business. A decision that concerns the Mountains of Cedar-felling is the business of youthful Utu.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		29-33	Utu of heaven put on his lapis-lazuli diadem and came forward with head high. In his hand Gilgameš, the lord of Kulaba, held a holy staff before his nose: Utu, I want to set off into the mountains! May you be my helper! I want to set off into the mountains of Cedar-felling! May you be my helper!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		34-50	The first XX. The second XX. The third XX. The fourth XX. The fifth XX. The sixth beats at the flanks of the mountains like a battering flood. The seventh flashes like lightning, and no one can deflect its power. These shine in the heavens, but they know the routes on earth. In heaven they shine XX, raising XX; on earth they know the way even to Aratta. They know the destructive weather like the merchants. They know the mountain crannies like the pigeons. They will guide you to the place in the mountains where the boats have to be pulled from the water.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		51-56	Gilgameš organised a levy in his city. In XX Kulaba he had the horn sounded. Citizens! You who have a wife, go to your wife! You who have children, go to your children! Warriors, whether experienced or inexperienced, who have no wife, who have no children -- let such people join me at my side as the companions of Gilgameš.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		57-66	The king left the city. Gilgameš left Kulaba, to follow the route to the Mountains of Cedar-felling. He crossed the first mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the second mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the third mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the fourth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the fifth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. He crossed the sixth mountain range, but his intuition did not lead him to find the cedars there. When he had crossed the seventh mountain range, there his intuition led him to find the cedars.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		67-70	Gilgameš began to chop at the cedars. His slave Enkidu worked on the branches for him. His fellow-citizens who had come with him stacked them in piles.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		71-77	Then, as one warrior got closer to the other, the aura of Huwawa XX sped towards them like a spear (?). XX he rested there peacefully. He was asleep (?) XX.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		78-82	XX addressed (?) XX: You who have gone to sleep, you who have gone to sleep XX! Young Lord Gilgameš, how long will you sleep for? The mountains are becoming indistinct as the shadows fall across them; the evening XX.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		83-89	Gilgameš awoke from his dream, shuddering from his sleep. He rubbed his eyes; there was eery silence everywhere. By the life of my own mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! My personal god Enki, Lord Nudimmud XX!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		90-95	I XX, he vexes (?) me -- the warrior whose face is a lion's grimace, and whose breast is like a raging flood. No one dare approach his brow, which devours the reedbeds. On his tongue, like that of a man-eating lion, the blood never dries. You do not have enough strength for the warrior, such is his might.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		96-98	His slave Enkidu addressed him:
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		99-108	By the life of my own mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! My personal god Enki, Lord Nudimmud XX! Warrior, one would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, they have made some tiny shoes for your tiny feet. Here, they have made some big shoes for your big feet.  If you bring XX.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		109-115	By the life of my mother Ninsumun and of my father, holy Lugalbanda! My personal god Enki, Lord Nudimmud XX! Warrior, one would like to know where in the mountains you live. Here, they have made some tiny shoes for your tiny feet. Here, they have made some big shoes for your big feet.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		116-129	They XX many piles on the hillside.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		130-134	When Huwawa had finally handed over to him his seventh aura, Gilgameš found himself beside Huwawa. He punched him on the ear with his fist. Huwawa furrowed his brows at him, baring his teeth at him. Gilgameš threw a halter over him, as over a captured wild bull. He tied him up by the elbows like a captured warrior.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		135-136	The warrior began to weep, shedding tears. Huwawa began to weep, shedding tears.
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		137-141	Warrior, you lied! You have manhandled me; yet you had sworn an oath, by the life of your own mother Ninsumun and of your father, holy Lugalbanda. Your personal god Enki, Lord Nudimmud XX! And now you have thrown a halter over me as if over a captured wild bull, and have tied me up by the elbows like a captured warrior!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		142-147	XX Gilgameš's noble heart took pity on him. He addressed his slave Enkidu: Come on, let us set the warrior free! He could be our guide! He could be our guide who would spy out the pitfalls of the route for us! He could be my XX! He could carry all my things!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		148-162	His slave Enkidu replied to him  1 ms. has instead: XX replied to Gilgameš : XX so lacking in understanding! XX with no XX! XX with not XX! A captured warrior set free! A captured high priestess returned to the ŋipar! A captured gudug priest restored to his wig of hair! Who has ever, ever seen such a thing? He would be able to XX the mountain routes. He would be able to mix up the mountain paths. Then we would never get back to the mother-city that bore us!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		163-166	Huwawa replied to him: The mother who bore me was a cave in the mountains. The father who engendered me was a cave in the hills. Utu left me to live all alone in the mountains!
t.1.8.1.5.1	Gilgameš and Huwawa (Version B)		167-168	Gilgameš addressed Huwawa: Come on, XX.
