id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		1-18	XX the prince of gods XX seated upon all the divine powers, Nunamnir, the lord of just decrees, who possesses fully the great divine powers, Father Enlil, made your fearsomeness manifest in heaven and on the earth. He made the gods of heaven stand by in heaven (?), and gave them (?) auspicious names. XX its king XX.  The Anuna, its great gods, line up before you. Enlil, they pay attention to your holy words and august statements. Nunamnir, you alone are elevated in the entirety of heaven and earth. XX of the Anuna gods, august shackle on all the lands, your XX is unfathomable. Everything this lord has is surpassing, and his orders are not to be changed. XX your divine powers surpass all others, your ways are ingenious, XX you are the trustworthy shepherd even of far-away foreign countries. Father Enlil, your beloved XX E-kur, has been built in Ki-ur, in Dur-an-ki, the place chosen by you; your august dais has been set up there. The divine powers of your shrine are precious, its true purification rites are august, and its cultic ordinances are pure and ineffable. The interior of E-kur is artfully fashioned, and no one may come to know it. Let Išme-Dagan care properly for its true divine plans and powers!
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		19	Sa-gida.
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		20	Enlil, through you may the term of kingship of Išme-Dagan, your beloved son, be enduring!
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		21	Ŋišgiŋal of the sa-gida.
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		22-40	Enlil, great lord of the gods, elevated above the numerous people! XX, great lord of the gods, elevated above the numerous people! XX your august utterances are prominent. XX cannot be countermanded, your statements are firm. Decide a good fate XX for the constant attendant of your temple XX. XX Išme-Dagan, the son of Enlil, XX. May XX to the uttermost limits of heaven and earth XX exalted.  May XX submit XX. May you XX Išme-Dagan XX.  May XX be bestowed on you XX. May you XX indefatigable XX. XX holy place, pure place XX.
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		41	Sa-ŋara.
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		42-45	XX the Anuna gods XX. XX the Anuna gods XX. XX, bestow on him XX a good reign, and prosperous years.
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		46	Its uru (?).
t.2.5.4.08	An adab to Enlil for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan H)		47	An adab (?) of Enlil.
