id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		A1-19	XX in the holy heart XX, XX, whose words are powerful, who XX decisions. XX foremost of the gods, omniscient XX. XX Enki, counsellor of holy An, adviser of the Great Mountain XX. XX foremost of the gods, omniscient XX. XX Enki, counsellor of holy An, adviser of the Great Mountain XX. Adviser, whose statements cannot be countermanded, whose ways XX fearsomeness. Patient-hearted, who rides upon all the divine powers, who XX like Enlil. Nudimmud XX holy dais XX. Lord imbued with fearsomeness, borne by An and Uraš, eldest brother of XX. King whose ways are recognised by Enlil, caretaker of XX. Supreme XX, first-born child of holy An, whose divine powers are untouchable XX. Junior Enlil of trustworthy utterances, XX divine plans. Nudimmud, lord who determines the fates, who strengthens the Land XX. Enki, great bull of Eridug, XX. XX greatly exalted among the Anuna XX.  XX like sheep (?) XX.
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		B1-7	Išme-Dagan XX.  XX the house (?) of Enlil XX. XX of Enlil XX his statements XX. XX counsellor of holy An XX.
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		C1-10	Nudimmud XX. Lord of Eridug XX. Išme-Dagan XX, son of Enlil XX. XX gives (?) you your instructions XX. Wise XX. XX divine plans XX. Omniscient XX.
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		D1-5	XX excellent divine powers XX  May he prepare for you XX liquor and emmer beer XX at the royal offering-place and salute you from there. XX prays to you (?) XX.
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		D6-7	May he bestow a long life with vigorous (?) days on Išme-Dagan, the son of Enlil! May Father Enki bestow a long life with vigorous (?) days on Išme-Dagan, the son of Enlil!
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		D8	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.5.4.05	A balbale to Enki for Išme-Dagan (Išme-Dagan E)		D9	A balbale of Enki. lines 8 and 9 are written as one line in source
