id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		A1-3	The XX which had developed -- its wiping clean (?) was to be accomplished (?). The XX of heaven and earth put their divine powers XX to sleep (?).
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		A4-8	XX mortal man multiplied to become as numerous as the gods. When together XX had achieved a momentous decision, the XX of the gods XX. Enki and Ninki determined the consensus -- deemed worthless. Enul and Ninul assigned the fate, XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		A9-14	When together An and Enlil had created it, that one resembled XX. When Ninlil had given it features, that one was fit for XX. When together Aruru, Suen and Enki had fashioned its limbs, that one turned pitch black, as at night, halfway through the watch, XX. All the great gods paled at its immensity and XX was brought about. Like a great wild bull which bellows mightily, that one filled the world with its roar.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		A15-20	As its gigantic horns reached up to heaven, who trembled in his very core? As it was piled up over the mountains like a battle-net, who turned away? Who caused wailing and lamenting in those streets and XX? Unug, like a loyal citizen in terror, set up an alarm (and exclaimed) Rise up! Why did its hand seize Unug? Why did the benevolent eye look away? Who brought about such worry and lamenting and XX?
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		A21-27	That one drew nearer. That one settled upon the ground. Why would he withdraw? Who distorted Unug's good sense and deranged its good counsel? Who smashed its good udug deity? Who struck its good lamma deity too? Who desecrated the fearsome radiance which crowned it? Who brought about mob panic in Unug? Who XX sickness too? Along with the city, the foreign lands XX, who XX in the temple of Unug? That one XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		B1-8	Who made XX? Why was XX expanded? Who made the black-headed people become so numerous? Who overthrew XX? XX was destroyed -- who restored XX? Who confronted XX? That one crushed XX. That one XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		C1-9	XX and Utu, who in human form renders judgment at the law court of heaven, set and did not rise again. XX bore a heavy burden of sin. XX the altered verdicts of Lord Nunamnir. XX who can smite XX? XX and they approach (?). XX he brings XX forth. XX of Enlil XX. He XX and puts an end to XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		D1-9	XX each and every one XX. XX its ways were XX. XX its destruction and demolition, XX. The XX of the gods XX attention. XX, who neglected XX, XX the city watched as the evil ghost approached. XX breathed painfully, he wept bitterly. XX there was no nodding of the head.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		D10-20	He consoled himself with tears and laments -- the city trembled. A defiled hand smote him and flattened his skull -- the city collapsed. The fearsome radiance overwhelmed like XX. The proud city of all the lands became like one who spreads havoc. The faithful cowherds themselves overturned every single cattlepen. The chief shepherds themselves burned (?) every sheepfold. They built them up like grain heaps, they spread them out like grain piles, they were convulsed. XX they drenched the fields with water, they turned the city into a swamp. They did all that. Like reeds in a wasteland, life could not be revived. They brought ruination. Evil things menaced (?) the city. A hush settled over the awed hearts of its people like a cloak.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		D21-33	Its good udug deities went away, its lamma deities ran off. Its lamma deity (said) Hide in the open country and they took foreign paths. The city's patron god turned against it and its shepherd abandoned it. Its guardian spirit, though not an enemy, was exiled (?) to a foreign place. Thus all its most important gods evacuated Unug, they kept away from it. They hid out in the hills and wandered (?) about in the haunted plains. In the city built upon peace, food and drink were overturned like a saman vessel. In the pasture lands a tumultuous noise arose, the asses and sheep were driven away. Elderly people and babies, taking their rest, XX in front XX. They saw XX and slaughtered (?) XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E1-7	He XX and opened his clenched fist. He XX and reached out his hand. The XX of Sumer, the city whose king crossed over to an enemy land, to XX. -- he smote it with the might of his weapon. He XX and turned the place into dust. He XX and piled the people up in heaps. XX, how long until its charms are restored?
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E8	2nd kirugu.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E9	The XX of heaven XX and the people XX to the limits of heaven.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E10	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E11-20	He XX, stretched forth his hand and induced terror in the land. Enlil struck out with great ferocity. He announced: A deluge dashing the hoe on the ground shall be invoked. At its front war shall be a XX axe, at its rear it shall be a XX. Its overgrown hair shall be a harrow, its back shall be flames. Its countenance shall be a malevolent storm that enshrouds heaven and earth. The glint of its eyes shall be lightning that flashes far like the Anzud bird. Its mouth shall rage -- a blazing fire that extends as far as the nether world. Its tongue shall be an inferno, raining embers, that sunders the Land. Its arms shall be the majestic Anzud bird that nothing can escape when it spreads wide its talons.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E21-31	Its ribs shall be crowbars that let light pass inside like the sun's rays. Knotted at both its hips shall be city-destroying slingstones. Its great haunches shall be dripping knives, covered with gore, that make blood flow. Its muscles shall be saws that slash, its feet those of an eagle. It shall make the Tigris and Euphrates quaver, it shall make the mountains rumble. At its reverberation the hills shall be uprooted, the people shall be pitched about like sheaves, Sumer and Akkad shall shiver, they shall be flooded like a harvest crop. The foolish shall rejoice, they shall exclaim (?): Let it come -- we shall be seeing war and battle in the city, how the sacred precinct (?) is destroyed, how the walls are battered down, how the city's peace is disrupted, how among the loyal families honest men are transformed into traitors.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E32-40	But the sensible shall beat their breasts and droop (?) their heads. At midnight they shall be afraid and tearful, and suffer insomnia. In bed, under the covers, they shall be unable to sleep soundly, they shall wander about the city. They shall be immobilised, their courage shall run out: May our allies serving in times of war raise their forces for peace. May the word of Enlil be sent back, may it turn tail. May the venom of Nunamnir's anger become exhausted. May those vicious men who have seized the E-kur be punished. May those who have set their sight upon Nibru be swept away.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E41	3rd kirugu.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E42	My heart is filled with sorrow, I am tear-stricken.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E43	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E44-50	Oh, Sumer! Alas -- your spirit! Alas -- your structure! Alas -- your people! The word of An, having been assigned its place, has destroyed the sacred precinct (?). The pronouncement of Enlil, having been set in motion, XX. The deluge dashing the hoe to the ground XX. The great and fierce XX, Lord Nergal XX. XX like Gibil, Nergal XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E51-65	War XX enemy lands XX echoed. Like arrows in a quiver XX. Evildoers in Sumer XX. Gutium, the enemy, overturned XX. Sumer, caught in a trap, XX. Its people were thrown into turmoil XX. The mighty heroes of Sumer XX. XX the heart of a hurricane XX. They advanced like the front rank of troops, XX. Like XX they were crushed, every one of them XX. Their war veterans gave up, their brains were muddled. The troop leaders, the most outstanding of the men, were viciously hewn down. Gutium, the enemy, XX weapons XX. Not looking at each other XX Like a swelling flood, like XX, Subir poured into Sumer.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E66-74	They XX like stampeding goats, they tore apart the corpses of the population. They mutilated Sumer and Akkad, they pulverised it as with a pestle. They destroyed its settlements and habitations, they razed them to ruin mounds. The best of Sumer they scattered like dust, they heaped up XX. They massacred its populace, they finished off young and old alike. They destroyed the city of the Anuna gods, they set it aflame. They put out both Unug's eyes, they uprooted its young shoots. They wandered all through the libation places of the Anuna gods. And even Kulaba, which is the primeval city, they turned into a place of murder.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E75	4th kirugu.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E76	Alas -- Sumer! Alas -- its people!
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E77	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E78-88	Unug! They seized your wharf and your borders and XX. At Unug shouts rang out, screams reverberated, its captured men XX. The noise reached to the south. The south was destroyed and XX. The impact forced its way to the uplands. The uplands were struck and XX. To the right and left no people moved about, no habitations were built. There was no XX and the mobilisation of troops did not XX. XX rose up to heaven. Heaven perished and its strength did not XX. XX upon the earth. The earth was scattered, and it did not XX. All the settlements were dispersed -- Unug stood all alone. It was a bull, it was a champion, it was immense with pride, but it XX to the weapons. All night and even until midday battle was waged, and afterwards it did not XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E89-99	Battering rams and shields were set up, they rent its walls. They breached its buttresses, they hewed the city with axes. They set fire to its stations, they XX the city's dwellings. They destroyed it, they demolished it. Unug, the good place, was XX with dust. Like a great wild bull wounded with an arrow, XX. Like a wild cow pierced with a spear, XX. The mighty one rushed with his weapons and XX implements of war. Subir, rising up like a swelling floodwave, XX. They trampled (?) through the streets and XX. They let the blood of the people flow like that of a sacrificial cow, they tore out everything that had been built.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E100-111	The citizens of Unug XX. They XX and threw down XX. They XX and put an end to XX. They seized XX. They struck XX. They destroyed XX. They XX They demolished XX. They set up XX. They heaped up XX. They put an end to XX and did not leave behind XX. XX Subir entered XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E112	5th kirugu.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E113	XX cried out XX has been created and he smeared dust XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E114	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		E115	XX reached XX
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		F1-5	The enemy land XX. Zabalam XX. In Urim, the E-kiš-nu-ŋal XX. Cattlepen and sheepfold XX, evil XX. The land of Subir XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		G1-5	All the great gods XX. The Anuna gods XX.  Sovereigns XX.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		H1-8	Lady Inana whose greatness is vaster than the mountains, hovering like An, vested with grandeur like Enlil, like her father, perfect by night and in the heat of the day, like Utu, surpassing in vigour, singularly exalted in all the four regions -- let Išme-Dagan take pleasure in relaxing in your temple, let him murmer to you in your temple, let him raise his head to you in your E-ana.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		H9-19	Let Išme-Dagan serve you as your steward. Let him prepare great bulls for you. Let him dedicate great offerings to you. Let him make the beer, fat and oil plentiful for you. Let him make syrup and wine flow for you as from stone jars. Let Išme-Dagan, son of Enlil on the king's pedestal, bow in homage to you. May he make the ub and ala drums resound grandly for you. May the tigi sound sweetly for you, and may the zamzam play for you. May they play XX on the tigi for you, expressing your prayers and supplications before you.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		H20-27	In bringing forth XX, all that there are, at your E-ŋipar in Unug, as a humble man who has grasped your feet, as a reverent man who has experienced your exaltedness, he has brought a lament as offering to you and will XX. As for everything that happened to Sumer and Akkad, which he has witnessed in Unug, the aggrieved place, may the best singers perform songs there.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		H28-38	If the Anuna gods emerge tearfully, let them promise to us that as it was when heaven and earth came about, nothing of that time shall be changed. If An looks kindly upon that man and at the well-built city, the place of determining fate, proclaim Man and city! Life and well-being! for him. Let praise ring out. Let him be made surpassing above all, to his right or left. Tireless lamma deity, take hold of his head, pronounce his fate in charitable words -- by the command of An and Enlil it will remain unaltered for a long time.
t.2.2.5	The lament for Unug		H39	12th kirugu.
