id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A1-12	City worthy of the divine powers, according to its name: shrine Urim, raging storm of Sumer, battleground -- and well established! Origin of human seed, consolidating the foundations of the Land, abundance -- and well established! Lofty dais of An, pure place, holy place, provider of first-fruit offerings for An to refresh himself, dripping with syrup and wine -- and well established! Du-ur, celebrated place of Enlil, in whose interior are the assigned divine powers, place whose destiny was decreed by Father Enlil, great dais -- and well established! Eridug, shrine expert in decreeing the fates, with princely divine powers, pure divine powers -- and well established! E-kiš-nu-ŋal, cattle-pen of Suen, where fecund cows, breed-bulls and holy calves gambol together, producing fine cream -- and well established! Abzu, holy residence of youthful Suen, tall crook lifting its head towards heaven, a marvel -- and well established!
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A13-24	Ŋipar, shrine built in exuberance, with the true divine powers of the rank of en priestess -- and well established! Princely (?) en priestess, your great name is pure; loosener of the headdress of Nanna who makes the dwelling pleasant, with good words and justice -- and well established! Id-nun-kug Holy princely river with ample flowing waters, your reservoir abounds with fish and birds -- and well established! Its city, established within the encircling walls, is a battle-mace, a weapon -- and well established! The convened assembly of its numerous people is a shield -- and well established! Great awe of the occupied settlements of Sumer -- and well established! Its foreign lands, teeming like herds of fecund cows, fat cows, numerous ewes with their lambs in the sheepfold -- and well established! Its army, rising to battle, is an irresistible onrush of water, a fearsome sea, a raging XX -- and well established!
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A25-37	Its prince, the hero of Enlil, a lion rising up in its strength, a furious lion (?) baring its teeth at the foreign lands, XX inspects great wild bulls, eating XX, extending XX. Shepherd Šulgi, son of Ninsumun, ornament of XX, XX in their evil words, brought the hero Gilgameš, the lord of Kulaba into XX. He produced an utterance for him XX from the foreign lands, XX of his palace. XX of the foreign lands. XX he looked at him as if on split reeds.
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A38-48	On the day when the destiny of the Land was determined, when the seed of all living beings was originally brought forth, when the king appeared radiantly to his comrade -- on that day, Gilgameš, the lord of Kulaba, conversed with Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, at his shining feet. So that their praise would be sung forever, so that it be would handed down to distant days, so that it should be not forgotten in remote years, they looked (?) at each other favourably in their mighty heroism.
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A49-52	Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, praised his brother and friend, Lord Gilgameš, in his might, and declared to him in his heroism:
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A53-60	Mighty in battle, destroyer of cities, smiting them in combat! Siege-weapon skilled with the slingstone against the holy wall! You brought forth your weapons against the house of Kiš. You captured dead its seven heroes. You trampled underfoot the head of the king of Kiš, En-me-barage-si XX. You brought the kingship from Kiš to Unug.
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A61-84	Thus he eulogised him who was born XX in Kulaba.  Gilgameš, lord of Kulaba, seed of lordship, righteous hero XX   (Gilgameš continues speaking:) Like XX, falsely (?) XX, you trampled underfoot XX, XX as if in a mighty clamp. You gathered its XX like swallows rising into the air. You entered with them into the presence of Enlil in the shrine of Nibru. Even those XX who escaped from the XX, wail bitterly XX. XX a copper (?) statue fashioned (?) in Urim, XX the seven gods, stationed beside, wielding battle-axes. Fearsome (?) hero XX, king of Sumer, you stand firm in your strength (?).
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A85-88	Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, praised his brother and friend, Lord Gilgameš, in his might, and declared to him in his heroism:
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A89-106	In the judgments that you pronounce XX. Who else like you has gone directly on the road to the mountains and has travelled the way to XX? Valiant one, XX the mountain cedars, XX the tall forests, XX the boats. XX Huwawa. XX his seven terrors. XX the small XX. XX from his well-established dwelling. XX to Enlil, in the shrine of Nibru XX. XX your captured hero. You allowed the mother of the sick man to fetch her son to her embrace. Your battle-mace, its mouth gaping wide, attacks the foreign lands for you. Gilgameš, noble one of Unug, violent storm, at whose oppression XX. The inimical rebel land, like XX. You have revealed your immense majesty! May you extend your protective arms over me!
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A107-108	Lord Gilgameš XX Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer:
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A109-137	The youthful XX, a god among the Anuna gods, XX venerates XX. Fearsome (?) hero XX, king of Sumer, you stand firm in your strength (?).
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A138-141	Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, praised his brother and friend, Lord Gilgameš, in his might, and declared to him in his heroism:
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		A142	Ištaran, the judge who dwells in the Land
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		B1-8	Mighty heir of kingship XX, powerful XX, stallion of Suen XX, wearing a lapis-lazuli beard XX. their praise XX, their songs (?) XX, their renown XX; son XX
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		C1-14	
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		D1-4	(Gilgameš continues speaking:) Fearsome (?) hero XX, king of Sumer, you stand firm in your strength (?).
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		D5-8	Šulgi, the good shepherd of Sumer, praised his brother and friend, Lord Gilgameš, in his might, and declared to him in his heroism:
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		D9-14	Gilgameš, the thoroughbred donkey XX, divine judge, XX  like a butting wild bull XX
t.2.4.2.15	A praise poem of Šulgi (Šulgi O)		E1-3	XX the rebel lands like a horned viper XX, Šulgi, son of Ninsumun XX Enki XX
