id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A1-10	The roaring storm covered it like a cloak, was spread over it like a sheet. It covered Eridug like a cloak, was spread over it like a sheet. In the city, the furious storm resounded XX. In Eridug, the furious storm resounded XX. Its voice was smothered with silence as by a gale. Its people XX. Eridug was smothered with silence as by a gale. Its people XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A11-18	Its king stayed outside his city as if it were an alien city. He wept bitter tears. Father Enki stayed outside his city as if it were an alien city. He wept bitter tears. For the sake of his harmed city, he wept bitter tears. Its lady, like a flying bird, left her city. The mother of E-mah, holy Damgalnuna, left her city. The divine powers of the city of holiest divine powers were overturned. The divine powers of the rites of the greatest divine powers were altered. In Eridug everything was reduced to ruin, was wrought with confusion.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A19-26	The evil-bearing storm went out from the city. It swept across the Land -- a storm which possessses neither kindness nor malice, does not distinguish between good and evil. Subir came down like rain. It struck hard. In the city where bright daylight used to shine forth, the day darkened. In Eridug where bright daylight used to shine forth, the day darkened. As if the sun had set below the horizon, it turned into twilight. As if An had cursed the city, alone he destroyed it. As if Enlil had frowned upon it, Eridug, the shrine Abzu, bowed low.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A27	1st kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A28	It cried out bitterly: O the destruction of the city! The destruction of the house!
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A29	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A30-37	A second time the storm destroyed the city -- its song was plaintive. XX was trampled (?). XX intensified the lament. It cut the lock from its main gate. The storm dislodged its door. XX It stacked the people up in heaps. XX on its own destroyed it. It turned XX into tears. XX defiled XX
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A39-47	XX It distorted its appearance. XX It distorted its appearance. It circled its XX wall. It overturned its foundations. Throughout his city, the pure, radiant (?) place, the foundations were filled with dust. It cast down its ziggurat, the shrine which reaches up to heaven, into a heap of debris. The loftiness of its elevated door-ornament, befitting a house, was stripped down (?). It cut down the gate, its Great-Ziggurat-of-Heaven-and-Earth-Covered-with-Terrible-Awesomeness, its shining door, and it broke through its bolt. It ripped out its doorframe. The house was defaced.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A48	2nd kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A49	The destruction of Eridug! Its destruction was grievous.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A50	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A51-57	At its lion-faced gate, the place where fates are determined, it mutilated the copse (?) forming the ornament of the house XX. Ka-heŋala and Igi-heŋala, the doorkeepers of the house, XX. Prematurely they destroyed it utterly. They completely altered XX. At the gate of the uzga precinct, the animal-fattener XX the great offerings. Its birds and fish were neglected there. Destruction XX. Throughout his house, radiant (?) in silver and lapis lazuli, tears XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A58-65	The hired man and the governor XX. The festivals XX grandly XX. Holy songs, songs of all kinds XX. The šem drum and ala drum XX. The great divine powers, all the divine powers XX. The place of the gods of heaven and earth XX. The judgment by the king, the holy sceptre at his right side, XX. The en priestess, lumah priest and nindiŋir priestess XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A66-73	The minister Isimud XX. Strangers to the house XX its side. Eridug, the shrine Abzu, XX silently. The enemy XX cleansed in a magnificent robe. XX a man XX the people XX. Along with the fluids spilled from his guts, his blood spilled forth. The XX, which like the azure sky was embellished forever, XX grasped XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A74	3rd kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A75-76	
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A77	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	A78-99	XX distressed and anxious XX like a pigeon XX.  The birds of the destroyed city XX a nest. The ukuku bird, bird of heart's sorrow, XX the place. Pain XX. The area became entangled in wild thornbushes. It XX wild thornbushes. The Šimaškians and Elamites, the destroyers, looked at the holy kettles which no one may look at. In the House of Nisaba's Wisdom, the house of understanding, XX covered over XX. The divine powers which embellish the Abzu XX. When the holy treasures stored in the treasury were put XX, when, like a mist lying heavily on the earth, XX, they went like small birds shooed from their hiding places.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B1	Father Enki uttered a lament for himself XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B2	4th kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B3	Bitterly Father Enki uttered a lament for himself.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B4	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B5-9	Because of this, Enki, king of the abzu, stayed outside his city as if it were an alien city. It bowed its neck down to the ground. Eridu's lady, holy Damgalnuna, the faithful cow, the compassionate one, clawed at her breast, clawed at her eyes. She uttered a frenzied cry. She held a dagger and a sword in her two hands -- they clashed together.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	B10-15	She tore out her hair like rushes, uttering a bitter lament: You, my city whose woman does not dwell there, whose charms do not satisfy her -- where is a lament uttered bitterly for you? Eridug! You, my city whose woman does not dwell there, whose charms do not satisfy her -- where are tears wept for you? I fall like a bull in your lofty XX falls XX. I am XX. My heart XX queen XX.  incorporating end of 5th kirugu
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C1-8	XX far away XX the great gods. Lord Enlil, king of the lands, looked maliciously at Sumer. He demolished it. He destroyed the Ki-ur, the great place. He razed with the pickaxe all of the shining E-kur. He destroyed it but did not abandon it -- at the lunches, in his great dining hall, they call his name.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C9-20	Aruru, the sister of Enlil, destroyed her city Iri-saŋ-rig. In Keš, the creation place of the Land, the people saw inside its holy sanctuary where daylight had been unknown. She destroyed it but did not abandon it -- at the lunches, in her great dining hall, they call her name. Lord Nanna, Lord Ašimbabbar, destroyed his city Urim. He decimated the Land with famine. He committed a sacrilege against the E-kiš-nu-ŋal. He struck at its heart. He destroyed it but did not abandon it -- at the lunches, in his great dining hall, they call his name.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C21-25	Inana, the queen of heaven and earth, destroyed her city Unug. Fleeing from the E-ana, the house of seven corners and seven fires XX, she destroyed it but did not abandon it -- at the lunches, in her great dining hall, they call her name.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C26	(Damgalnuna speaks:) My beloved, who has ever seen such a destruction as that of your city Eridug!
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C27	6th kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C28	My beloved, for how long was it built? For how long is it destroyed? XX adornment of the Abzu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C29	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C30-36	Lord Enki, who has ever seen such a destruction as that of your city Eridug? Who has ever seen such a misfortune as that of the shrine Abzu, your house? No one goes up to his offering terrace. At the lunches, in his great dining hall, they do not call his name. Enki, king of the abzu, felt distressed, felt anxious. At the words of his spouse, he himself began to wail. He lay down and fasted.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C37-44	My king, you must not be distressed, you must not be anxious. Father Enki, you must not be distressed, you must not be anxious. Son of An, return your heart to your Ki-ur and your attention to your city. Living in an alien city is miserable -- return your attention to your city. Living in an alien house is miserable -- return your attention to your house. What can anyone compare with this city? -- Return your attention to your city. What can anyone compare with this house? -- Return your attention to your house. Eridug's day is long. Its night is over.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C45-52	May your throne say to you Sit down. May your bed say to you Lie down. May your house say to you Be rested. May your holy dais also say joyfully to you Sit down. May your father An, the king of the gods, satisfy your heart. A person, a humble man, brings you a lament over your wife's faithful house. When he sings it before you, may that person soothe your heart. When he recites a prayer, look kindly upon him.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C53	7th kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C54	It destroyed your XX and struck against your house.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C55	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	Nibru	C56-59	XX and may he restore it for you.  Do not hide like a criminal XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	A1-5	House of princely powers, standing in mighty water -- the waters have receded from it XX. One can walk on its wide swamp. Within it grow wild thornbushes. The delightful boat Wild goat of the abzu -- the waters have receded from it; XX its sheepfold XX the wharf. They were Sirsir, the tutelary deity, and the man who rides the boat. At the prow XX was hurled down in front of them. Evildoers destroyed the house, and its rites were disturbed.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	A6-7	At the giguna shrine, the sacred house, evildoers XX. The E-unir -- the shrine raises its head as high as heaven. Its shadow XX.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	A8-14	At the great gate, the lion-faced gate, the place where fates are determined, evildoers XX. They set fire to its door. Ka-heŋala and Igi-heŋala, the doorkeepers of the house, XX. XX Enki, at the XX place, XX its people. XX the destroyed place, the Abzu XX the powers of the Anuna gods.   continuation of 3rd kirugu
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	B1-6	Eridug XX. City in the reedbeds XX. In Eridug, young bulls XX. Without being a marsh boar XX. Eridug, like a bull XX. The lady of the city cried, My city XX!
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	B7	3rd kirugu.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	B8	Father Enki! O your house, O your city, O your people XX the mountains.
t.2.2.6	The lament for Eridug	UET 6 142	B9	Its ŋišgiŋal.
