id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		A1-9	The XX because of you does not XX. My brother, the XX because of you does not XX. Lad (?), the XX because of you does not XX. My beloved, the XX because of you does not XX. My fairest of countenance, the XX because of you does not XX. Its date clusters because of you are not placed in my hand. Its sheaves are XX for me. Its XX are not sweet for me. Grain XX the silos (?).
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		A10-17	My sister, I would go with you to my fields. My fair sister, I would go with you to my fields. I would go with you to my large fields. I would go with you to my small fields. For my early grain irrigated with its early water, for my late grain irrigated with its late water, XX its grain XX sheaves XX.
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		A18-23	My sister, I would go with you to my fields. My fair sister, I would go with you to my fields. XX the large fields. XX in my small fields.
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		B1-9	In the XX of the XX, it has become fallow (?) XX. In the XX of the sheaves, the date clusters (?) XX. In the XX of the XX, it has become fallow (?) XX. In the XX of the sheaves, the date clusters (?) XX. Farmer, plough the field, set up the XX. XX of Lord Šulgi. For XX plough the field, set up the XX. He will bring offerings (?) to the XX for you.
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		B10-19	My (?) sister, I would go with you to my garden. My fair sister, I would go with you to my garden. My sister, I would go with you to my garden. My sister, XX my garden, XX the ildag tree. I would go with you to my ildag tree by the watercourse. My sister, I would go with you to my apple tree. May XX the apple tree be in my hand. My sister, I would go with you to my pomegranate tree and then XX there the sweet XX covered (?) in honey.
t.2.4.2.26	A love song of Šulgi (Šulgi Z)		B20-30	My sister, I would go with you to my garden. Fair sister, I would go with you to my garden. XX like the plants of the watercourse.  XX the sprout of a lettuce. I would XX plant there. I would XX plant there. In your (?) silo XX I would XX for you.  Fair sister, luxuriant of heart XX. I would XX of the date-clusters for you (?).
