id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	A1-3	Say to Puzur-Šulgi, the commander XX: this is what Šulgi, your lord, says:
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	A4-8	When I had XX the fortress Igi-hursaŋa, and An and Enlil had XX supreme rule over all the foreign lands and the widespread people, the cities and the Land XX, and the people of the widespread Land lay XX.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B1	They should mobilise all these cities.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B2-6	When the master-builder (?) has taken up the work concerned, he is to re-establish securely any place where the fortification has fallen into ruins. Let him reinforce and also rebuild it. The neglected work load is to be completed within one month; I shall be questioning him about this work.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B7-11	XX the Tidnum have returned (?) from their mountain land. I am therefore setting over you Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, together with his troops (?). There is for you XX together with his XX. There is not for him XX.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B13-14	May XX be sent when (?) XX is completed.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B15-17	Should Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, together with his troops, abandon you, then you and Aradŋu  should not turn aside  1 ms. has instead: should not feel constrained (?) .
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	A	B18-21	The orders are rigorous: you should not neglect your work load. They are to proceed with the building work by night and in the heat of noon. You will not be sleeping during the night or in the heat of noon! You should know this! It is urgent!
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	1-2	Say to Puzur-Numušda: this is what Šulgi, your lord, says:
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	3-7	When I had built the great fortress Igi-hursaŋa and An and Enlil had given to me the XX over all the foreign lands and the widespread people, each of their towns and all their provinces, and the people of the widespread Land lay in green meadows. I made them rest (?) in spacious habitations, in peaceful dwelling places.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	8-13	As for their men and women: the man among them goes wherever he pleases, and the woman with (?) spindle and hair clasp goes wherever she pleases. After they had set up stock-pens in the vastness of the desert, and established their tents and camps, the workmen and the labourers spend the days in the fields.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	14-15	In order that the ruler and the general manager can build everything for you concerning the fortress, carry out this work on the fortress now. The reputation of this fortress shall not be diminished.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	16-19	By consulting omens and according to my heart's desire (?) I have benefited (?) the life of the troops and the province XX. Now the troops have arrived. As for the work on this fortress, the men are to proceed with the building work on it.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	20-22	Now I have sent Aradŋu to you. Let the ruler and the general manager bring these men. They are to mobilise all the settlements.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	23-27	The master builder (?) has taken up his work. Where substantial work has been neglected, let him return to it. He is to reinforce and rebuild it. He is to complete the fortress within one month. Let him not question this assignment.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	28-30	May Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, go to join his troops. He certainly has flour provisions (?) with him. He should not be deterred by hardship.
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	31	When the fortress is completed, a letter from the two of you should reach me (?).
t.3.1.08	Letter from Šulgi to Puzur-Šulgi about the fortress Igi-hursaŋa	Susa	32-36	When you have seen for yourselves, let Lu-Nanna, the ruler of the province of Zimudar, proceed to his troops. You and Aradŋu should not delay them! Let the building work proceed both by night and by the noonday heat. Your (?) orders are rigorous, and you should not give up this work load. It is urgent!
