id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		1-3	Say to my lord: this is what  Puzur-Šulgi  1 ms. has instead: Puzur-Marduk  1 other ms. has instead: Puzur-Numušda , the commander of the fortress Igi-hursaŋa, your servant, says:
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		4-8	All the  gold and silver  1 ms. has instead: gold and lapis lazuli  1 other ms. has instead: silver and gold  that my lord has been fashioning for the  1 ms. adds: great  gods -- is it not for his own life? For  the life  1 ms. has instead: the well-being  of the troops and his land, my king has built the great fortress Igi-hursaŋa for the people of his land, because of the wicked enemy.
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		9-11	And now the enemy troops have risen up.  One  1 ms. has instead: XX  man who had fled from me has been brought back. Having been caught, he has given me evidence of this, and  went ahead  1 ms. has instead: XX go!, and I (?) went .
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		12-14	I am also well-informed about the oracular signs concerning the enemy: the enemy has replenished his strength for battle. However, my strength is limited. I cannot strengthen the fortress further or  guard it  1 ms. has instead: guard the cities (?)  against him.
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		15-22	As for the sector (?) of  Šu-Numušda  1 ms. has instead: Šu-Marduk  1 other ms. has instead: Puzur-Numušda , the ruler of Ŋirilumtura: five nindan lengths of it are cut off. As for the sector (?) of Lugal-melem, the manager of the  Šegšeg watercourse  1 ms. has instead: city of XX the correct form of this name is not known :  40  1 ms. has instead: 25  1 other ms. has instead: 30  1 further ms. has instead: 45 (?)  nindan lengths of XX on top of it are no longer fixed. As for the sector (?) of Ka-kugani, the ruler of the territory of Murub: 45 nindan lengths were destroyed when the opposite side was captured. As for the sector (?) of Tākil-ilišu, the  canal inspector  1 ms. has instead: ruler  of the Ab-gal and Me-Enlila watercourses: 50 nindan lengths of the edge have been removed, and in the middle of it they collapsed.
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		23-25	Moreover it is not  established  1 ms. has instead: stated  1 other ms. has instead: known  when the enemy will pitch camp.  Once the enemy is camped I will replenish my powers  1 ms. has instead: The enemy will replenish his strength for battle .   1 ms. adds: I will fortify XX and XX.  His troops are camped among the hills.
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		26-29	If my lord agrees,  may he send to me speedily  1 ms. has instead: XX, let there be available  7,200 soldiers as workmen who will carry baskets for me.  May he send to me speedily  1 ms. has instead: May there come, at my disposal,  70  Šimaškian attendants XX  1 ms. has instead: XX  1 other ms. has instead: XX .
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		30-31	The enemy has devised their plans concerning this: I will resettle them  1 ms. has instead: The enemy has devised his plans and has resettled the people  1 other ms. has instead: Plans concerning me have been devised: I will resettle them . May it be known that, by night or by day the enemy's sins are forever grave.
t.3.1.07	Letter from Puzur-Šulgi to Šulgi about the advance of the enemy		32-34	I am the loyal servant of my lord Šulgi.  1 ms. adds: XX which is not negligent.  Let this not be the death of me! May my lord know!  1 ms. adds: It is urgent!
