id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.1.11	Letter from Aradŋu (?) to Šulgi about bandits and Apillaša		1-7	The men (?) started irrigation work (?) on the watercourses,  XX the watercourses XX  1 ms. has instead: and dug and cleaned them out thoroughly . These bandits and brigands applied their hoes to levelling the desert completely. As for their men and their women  1 ms. adds: XX the road (?) XX : the man among them goes wherever he pleases,  the woman among them  1 ms. has instead: the woman , holding a spindle and hair clasp in her hand,  goes (?)  1 ms. has instead: XX  1 other ms. has instead: going  the way of her choice. In the vastness of the desert  they set up  1 ms. has instead: they knock up  animal pens, and  after setting up their tents and camps  1 ms. has instead: they lie in (?) green meadows in their (?) tents and camps , their workers and agricultural labourers spend the day together on the fields.
t.3.1.11	Letter from Aradŋu (?) to Šulgi about bandits and Apillaša		8-14	I have not neglected the instructions of my lord Šulgi: both at night and in the noonday heat I XX my neck; I XX the workload (?) concerned. Since his childhood, Apillaša  has XX  1 ms. has instead: has not XX . A man such as he knows my heart, as your eyes  know  1 ms. has instead: have seen . My lord, with the open eye of a god,  XX to (?) an evildoer XX  1 ms. has instead: you (?) know the evildoer . While the great XX official of all the foreign lands surpasses XX, my lord, you (?) surpass all great things, XX an equal.
t.3.1.11	Letter from Aradŋu (?) to Šulgi about bandits and Apillaša		15-20	The report is returned (?) XX;  1 ms. has instead: Whatever statements have been made XX,  your matter is an important matter, and your affairs are great affairs. His pleasant words are in your heart, XX. They (?) are the people. Your eyes XX. How could I bear a grudge? I am securing the foundations of the province, and making it obedient. My lord, no king can rival you; let your heart be glad!
