id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.3.09	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to Enlil-massu		1-9	Say this to Enlil-massu who enhances  1 ms. has instead: pronounces   advice and counsel, the mellifluous mouth which makes speech persuasive. Repeat it to the son who serves his god and respects his father and mother. Say it a third time  1 ms. has instead: Repeat it   to my protective guardian and propitious spirit -- the precious powers -- whose form and stature are pleasing, honour to the scribal craft, hero among the administrators and ornament of the palace  1 Urim ms. has instead: hero among the administrators  2 mss. have instead: ornament of the palace and hero among the administrators   who reinstates decrees and greatly pleases the heart of his king. This is what Lugal-nesaŋe, the nueš priest of Enlil and person who brings laughter to the king, son of Enlil-alsag  1 Urim ms. has instead: Zuzu  , the scholar of Nibru and your father, says:
t.3.3.09	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to Enlil-massu		10-16	When your mighty XX  the 2 Urim mss. have instead: my XX   completely crushed me, my heart sank and thirst and hunger  1 Urim ms. has instead: hunger and thirst   wasted me away. Your status consumes me, your complaints crush me, your majesty oppresses me, your slander  1 Urim ms. has instead: your storminess   puts an end to me. After being attentive I have been abandoned  the 2 Urim mss. have instead: Despite being attentive I have been cut off from my position  . Deceit has emerged from my wisdom and sympathy  1 Urim ms. has instead: Deceit has replaced wisdom and sympathy  . 2 mss. omit line 16
t.3.3.09	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to Enlil-massu		17-20	After my becoming sorely afraid, my heart is full of blood and gore. As a result of deep concern, I am in distress.  1 Urim ms. has instead: On my becoming sorely afraid, my heart XX blood and much gore. As a result of deep concern, I am in distress.  the other Urim ms. has instead: As a result of deep concern, I am in distress. As a result of becoming sorely afraid, my heart is full of blood and gore.   So long as I have not gone to the place where destiny is decided, may your countenance favour me in accordance with the instructions of Enlil.
