id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.3.3.03	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to a king radiant as the sun	A	1-7	Say this to the king who like the sun has made the heart of the Land radiant. Repeat it to the one who removed oppressive toil from the furrow, who defeated  1 ms. has instead: confronted   Tidnum and holds its sceptre, who is counted as its honoured king. This is what Lugal-nesaŋe  2 mss. have instead: Lugal-šu  , a citizen of Nibru and your servant, says:
t.3.3.03	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to a king radiant as the sun	A	8-15	A punishment which I do not understand has ravaged me and I have wailed my lamenting. In a strange city I moan like a dove and receive no mercy. I am constantly restless like a dog which does not know where to settle down. I am watchful like a bird which has flown from the claws of a falcon. My exuberance has perished in blight like a garden that has not been watered  1 ms. has instead: tended  . Envy within my king's palace overwhelms me and a bad reputation besets me.
t.3.3.03	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to a king radiant as the sun	A	16-31	Grief XX. Woe XX. Like an ox I am overwhelmed, XX my fodder. My descendants and offspring are on good terms XX their nest, XX the mouth for eating food. As happens on  1 ms. has instead: Like a distant XX from   the XX high plains where the winds blow, XX the mill. I will not be buried on dying but XX ground like grain. My brother, although not an enemy, XX contemptuously.
t.3.3.03	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to a king radiant as the sun	A	32-33	The king XX, XX like Utu.
t.3.3.03	Letter from Lugal-nesaŋe to a king radiant as the sun	Kiš	1-9	XX a bird XX the claws of a falcon. XX like a garden which has been watered. Envy within my king's palace overwhelms me and XX. Grief XX. Woe XX. Like an ox I am overwhelmed, like XX my fodder. My descendants and offspring are worried in their nests. Like a distant XX from the XX high plains where the winds blow, XX the mill. I will not experience being buried as befits the dead but XX ground like grain.
