id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A1-7	The pelican (?) came forth from the holy reedbeds. It came forth from the holy reedbeds. The wise pelican (?) spent the day high in the skies. The pelican (?) cried out in the sky: its singing was sweet and its voice was pleasing. My lady XX her pelican (?) with beauty. The mistress, Mother Nanše, XX her pelican (?) with beauty.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A8-9	I am the mistress! How can my pelican (?) XX? How can I XX? I am Nanše! How can my pelican (?) XX holy? How can XX?
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A10-22	She herself XX upon the water like a large pelican (?). Stepping onto earth from heaven, she XX in the water like a holy cow. A holy pelican (?), a white cow, she drank by the water's side. With the towering flood XX. Nanše, shining XX of the Anuna, the great gods! Mistress, Mother Nanše, good woman, XX! Nanše, sister praised by the Anuna! Mother, beautiful matriarch of Enlil!  Nanše  1 ms. has instead: My lady , delighting in her pelican (?), erected a lapis lazuli shrine, and set the holy pelican (?) by her feet.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A23-27	I am the mistress, so let my birds assemble for me where the sheaves are gathered! I am Nanše, so let my birds assemble for me where the sheaves are gathered! Let the birds of heaven and earth stand at my service! Let every bird without a name bring offerings! Let every bird not caught in nets XX!
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A28-30	The voiceless bat XX, a bird that darts by in the heavens. The Anzud bird decides the fates with (?) the Anuna gods.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A31-42	The sharp-toothed bird in (?) the water sends forth XX wisdom: My mistress, XX. I am the bird, the sharp-toothed bird! All by myself XX. My Nanše, XX! I am the bird, the sharp-toothed bird! All by myself XX.  The lammergeier XX. XX the lammergeier XX. It kills wild bulls in the foothills, and it kills the stags in the high mountains.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A43-45	Raven, raven, your eggs are shining bright! Raven bird, your eggs are shining bright! Where do people carry off your holy eggs, your XX eggs to?
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A46-48	The ostrich XX her eggs on the hillside. She receives those eggs as something to carry: the bird knows how to keep watch at night.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A49-53	The peacock spends the day keeping watch. The holy bird, the peacock, spends the day calling 'haya'. A bird red from cornelian, blue from lapis lazuli, white (?) from chalcedony (?), with all kinds of gold, and leather inlaid with gold -- may the coppersmith fashion the peacock for you thus.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		A54-63	O bird in the sky! O vulture, weaver, vulture, weaver! O uz vulture in the sky! O vulture, weaver, vulture, weaver! Its wings together, its feet together,  Its call XX to the ear (?) XX. XX its call XX.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		B1-14	The misaz bird XX cries out XX.  The snake-eater bird is green XX. Its wings XX a barge XX. The XX bird XX. The gubi bird XX.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		C1-6	XX of Ninhursaŋa (?) he brings as his property to the mountains. Since it was searching for its property, the bird is called niŋgurmudum ('He brings his property'). The niŋgurmudum bird calls out and laments in the desert of Keš.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		C7-17	The twittering birds flocking in the palace XX. The salsal bird cries in lament over itself. The egret (?), seemly in a XX linen garment, is present at the quayside. The heron (?) is brown, and clad in XX in the reedbeds. The XX bird catches azagur fish. The giri-ilu bird, dread of the people, XX its 'giri-ilu'. The stork XX picks up (?) XX like grass. The sa bird names XX its young XX. The dubdubu bird XX. The šegšeg bird sheds tears like a crying baby. The gubiguzaga bird XX like an angry man.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		D1-15	XX green XX. XX birds, like ants in crevices XX. XX Bau takes a bath XX. The tigilu bird XX the split roots XX. The dove XX gently in the broad fields. The pigeon XX bitterly in the vacant lot of the king. The ubi bird and the udar bird XX ants XX. The bird XX. XX in the gutter like beasts.  XX humbly like an orphaned child XX. The hamun bird XX in harmony XX is dressed in linen. XX wine, like wine XX
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		E1-16	The heron (?) XX. The girgid bird XX. The dur bird XX.  The dar bird XX guard XX. The dar bird XX 'tikutikumae'. The XX bird XX in the marshes. The adardara bird XX the swallow XX. The XX bird, when the net is suspended XX. The XX bird XX marshes XX. The šu-ur bird XX its extended wings and its head. The sleep bird spends its time crying 'dilibipila'. The shepherd bird cries 'uludig uludig'. The shepherd bird is brightly coloured like the durdar bird, and has a crest on its head. The nu-erimla bird does not live in windows or reed huts. The tirida bird calls the name 'tirida' in the reedbeds.
t.4.14.3	Nanše and the birds (Nanše C)		E17-20	XX, you are she who loves the fish and birds! You are she who does not scatter my XX! You are she who does not belittle XX! Mistress, Mother Nanše, it is sweet to praise you!
