id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		A1-4	Let us XX praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		A5-13	She does not XX. She does not go to the rich XX nor XX. She does not XX. The barge of Suen as it proceeds -- lady, is not yours as beautiful? The joyous symbol of Inana -- protective goddess, is not yours as attractive? Let us XX praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		A14-26	XX, daily XX at her feet. My lady, at his right side you XX your good XX towards him. XX full of glory -- lady, is not yours as beautiful? XX magnificently in the Land -- protective goddess, is not yours as attractive? Let us XX praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		A27-34	Good woman, prayerful lady for whom has been decreed the creation of life -- each day as she goes about, conversing, from early in the morning she is to be XX at her side with honour. Your name fills the mouth like cakes, butter and cream. Whatever she brings from the street and the beer she brews are of the best quality. She instructs people to provide her with the best produce of her orchards. As a daily task, she inspects the shrine Ŋirsu. Daily she passes before you in radiance.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		A35-38	Protective goddess, XX you have given this person a husband in place of a father. You have given her a husband in place of a father, you have given her a son in place of a smallholding.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		B1-8	I shall praise the good woman, the Utu of the Land, my goddess. Mother Bau's august minister, who creates life for the king! Holy messenger who brings the tablet of life down from the interior of heaven, who sets rain on its way (?) from heaven, and brings forth abundance! Expeditious, an honour to Bau and an ornament of the holy shrine, protective goddess of those who pray to Bau, XX -- because you love mankind and rejoice at its gifts, let us forever praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		B9-13	XX with a lovely head, full of beauty, XX of lapis lazuli, lovely XX, giving advice, radiant in prayer (?),  XX may she favour the king.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		C1-4	XX, good woman, my protective goddess, let us forever praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		C5-12	respected one, beloved of Bau, lady XX true cream,  As is fitting, she lets Lord Ig-alim have the sceptre. Just woman, my protective goddess, lady -- because you XX, let us forever praise (?) you, the beneficent protective goddess of Bau, the lady who XX food and drink and XX in abundance, who from the dwelling place of the abzu's abundance speaks in a noble voice in its XX.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		D1-7	My protective goddess, lady XX, good woman encouraging celebration and listening to words of prayer, guiding fine speech and tongues, lady who loves the truth, august minister of Mother Bau, with silver lips, directing XX and XX ears and cheeks! Good woman, my protective goddess, your appearance unmatchable, my XX, let us forever praise (?) you.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		D8-18	Completely filling the XX with clear and good water,  XX a very fine XX of woven wool, covered with šuba ornaments, XX a woollen XX thighs, rising up like XX, with limbs as bright as daylight, exuding opulence like a XX, with fine forearms, fit for the XX, XX fingers of silver, XX nir stone, XX the palace! Good woman, my protective goddess, your appearance unmatchable, let us forever praise (?) you.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		D19-24	Minister who forgets nothing, lady who XX the place that soothes the spirit, XX a patient heart,  with broad hips XX, seemly XX, your name XX like a XX, XX, lady XX like a XX.
t.4.02.1	A hymn to Bau's beneficent protective goddess (Bau A)		D25-28	Good woman, my protective goddess -- because you XX the statue, let us forever praise (?) you who XX like cream and butter (?).
