id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		1-13	The great house is as great as a mountain. The house of Enlil is as great as a mountain. The house of Ninlil is as great as a mountain. The bedchamber is as great as a mountain. The house which knows no daylight is as great as a mountain. The house at the Lofty Gate is as great as a mountain. The house at the Gate of Well-being is as great as a mountain. The courtyard of Enlil is as great as a mountain. The Hursaŋ-galama is as great as a mountain. The holy Renowned Gate is as great as a mountain. The Gate from which Grain is never Diverted is as great as a mountain. The Ubšu-unkena is as great as a mountain. The Ŋa-ŋiš-šua is as great as a mountain.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		14-27	The house of Ninlil is as great as a mountain. The gate Kan-innamra is as great as a mountain. The E-itida-buru is as great as a mountain. The courtyard of the Egal-mah is as great as a mountain. The lofty E-itida-buru is as great as a mountain. The Entum-galzu is as great as a mountain. The Innam-gidazu is as great as a mountain. The Suen Gate is as great as a mountain. The Du-kug, the holy place, is as great as a mountain. The field of E-dima is as great as a mountain. The Ane-ŋara is as great as a mountain. The Ašte, the pure place, is as great as a mountain. The E-tilla-mah is as great as a mountain. The Ŋa-apina is as great as a mountain.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		28	Sa-gida.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		29	He declares: Heavenward (?)!
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		30	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		31-41	For him who declares it, for him who declares it, the house comes forth like the daylight. For him who declares that he is of the mountain, the house comes forth like the daylight. For him who declares that he is of the house of Enlil, the house comes forth like the daylight. For him who declares that he is of the house of Ninlil, the house comes forth like the daylight. For him who declares that he is of the house of Ninurta, the house comes forth like the daylight, for him who declares that he is of the house of the princely son.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		42	Kirugu.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		43-52	The house towers high in full grandeur; in its midst is a mountain of aromatic cedars. The house of Enlil towers high in full grandeur; in its midst is a mountain of aromatic cedars. The house of Ninlil towers high in full grandeur; in its midst is a mountain of aromatic cedars. The courtyard of Enlil towers high in full grandeur; in its midst is a mountain of aromatic cedars. The courtyard of Ninlil towers high in full grandeur; in its midst is a mountain of aromatic cedars.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		53	Sa-ŋara.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		54	XX rejoice XX.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		55	Its ŋišgiŋal.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		56-68	Its king is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. The hero Ninurta is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. The offspring (?) of Ninlil is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. The lord, the hero (?) of the E-kur, is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. The offspring (?) of Enlil is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. Lord Ašimbabbar is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth. The princely son of the E-kur is worthy of Enlil the king in the true house of youth.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		69	XX This rubric was probably omitted accidentally
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		70	He is the favourite of Enlil.
t.4.80.4	A hymn to the E-kur		71	Its ŋišgiŋal.
