id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.16.2	A šir-namšub to Nisaba (Nisaba B)		1-13	XX is destroyed. XX is destroyed. It is destroyed. XX of Nisaba is destroyed. The house of Nisaba, her of the tablets, is destroyed. The house of XX is destroyed. The house of Nun-bar-še-gunu is destroyed. XX, the E-hamun is destroyed. The plants of lamentation have sprouted; the šumunda grass has sprouted. By the walls the long grass has sprouted. Amongst them, the willow trees are everywhere. As for the word of An and the word of Enlil, the angry heart of great An is everywhere, and the malign heart of Enlil is everywhere.
t.4.16.2	A šir-namšub to Nisaba (Nisaba B)		14-21	(Nisaba speaks:) In my house, may the moonlight in my house, the moonlight, the glorious sky in my house, the moonlight, the glorious night in my house -- may the glorious sky, the glorious night in my house not leave me (?)! The moonlight is obscured by the walls from my man, from my man. The moonlight, the glorious sky, from my man, the moonlight, the glorious night, from my man, the glorious sky, the glorious night is obscured by the walls from my man.
t.4.16.2	A šir-namšub to Nisaba (Nisaba B)		22-30	In the moonlight, in the pure place of moonlight I lie down alone. In the moonlight which fills the hills, the pure place, I lie down alone. By the cedar mountains where Enlil lies, I lie down alone. XX I weep a bitter lament. XX lying in the moonlight, I weep a bitter lament. XX which sets aglow XX shines forth. I am distraught. The moonlight which sets aglow the glorious sky shines forth. I am distraught. The moonlight which sets aglow the glorious night shines forth. I am distraught -- which sets aglow the glorious sky, the glorious night, shines forth. I am distraught.
t.4.16.2	A šir-namšub to Nisaba (Nisaba B)		31-33	Even now that the pure place knows daylight, amid her awe-inspiring splendour, still she weeps. Amid her awe-inspiring splendour, still Mother Ezina-Kusu weeps. Fate and fortune! Amid her awe-inspiring splendour, still she weeps.
t.4.16.2	A šir-namšub to Nisaba (Nisaba B)		34	A šir-namšub of Nisaba.
