id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		1-3	My dearest, my dearest, my dearest, my darling, my darling, my honey of her own mother, my sappy vine, my honey-sweet, my honey-mouthed of her mother!
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		4-6	The gazing of your eyes is pleasant to me; come my beloved sister. The speaking of your mouth is pleasant to me, my honey-mouthed of her mother. The kissing of your lips is pleasant to me; come my beloved sister.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		7-12	My sister, the beer of your barley is good, my honey-mouthed of her mother. The ale of your beer-bread is good; come my beloved sister. In the house, your luxuriance XX, my honey-mouthed of her mother. My sister, your luxuriance XX, my beloved XX. Your house XX a storehouse, my honey-mouthed of her mother. You princess, my XX.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		13-16	For as long as you live, as long as you live, you shall take an oath for me, brother of the countryside, for as long as you live you shall take an oath for me. You shall take an oath for me that you will not touch another. You shall take an oath for me that you will not XX your head on anyone else.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		17-20	My one who wears the XX niŋlam garment, my beloved, man of my heart! I shall impose an oath XX on you, my brother of the beautiful eyes. My brother, I shall impose an oath on you, my brother of the beautiful eyes.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		21-26	You are to place your right hand on my genitals while your left hand rests on my head, bringing your mouth close to my mouth, and taking my lips in your mouth: thus you shall take an oath for me. This is the oath of women, my brother of the beautiful eyes.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		27-32	My desirable one, my desirable one, your charms are lovely, my desirable apple garden, your charms are lovely. My fruitful garden of meš trees, your charms are lovely, my one who is in himself Dumuzid-abzu, your charms are lovely. My holy statuette, my holy statuette, your charms are lovely. My alabaster statuette adorned with a lapis-lazuli jewel, your charms are lovely.
t.4.08.02	A balbale to Inana (Dumuzid-Inana B)		33	A balbale song of Inana.
