id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	1-8	Maiden, glossy mane, lovely beauty, Inana, glossy mane, lovely beauty! Maiden, mane of the ibex, XX red deer, XX red deer, Inana, mane of the ibex, XX red deer, XX red deer! Maiden, colourful as a pile of grain, fit for the king, Inana, colourful as a pile of grain, fit for Dumuzid! Maiden, you are a shock of two-row barley, fully developed in loveliness, Inana, you are a shock of two-row barley, fully developed in loveliness!
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	9-14	I am the queen, I am the queen, I am XX full of loveliness! I am the maiden, I am the queen, I am XX full of loveliness! I am the queen, seed engendered by An, I am XX full of loveliness! I am good oil, good oil, XX sweet perfume! XX may he moor the boat XX. XX may he moor the boat XX.
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	15-19	I am the queen, I shall go with him to his XX. I am Inana, I shall go with him to his XX. I shall go with him to his XX. I shall go with him to his XX shrine. I shall go with him to the house with its measuring jars.
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	20-28	Let me learn the way to the man, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to my Ama-ušum, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to Ama-ušumgal-ana, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to the esparto grass, my milk, to my milk, my milk! Let me learn the way to the poplars, the cool place, my milk! Let me learn the way to the innuš plants, the pure plants, my milk! Let me learn the way to the grasslands, the frosty place, my milk! Let me learn the way to the holy sheepfold, my man's sheepfold! Let me learn the way to the holy sheepfold, my Dumuzid's sheepfold!
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	29	Sa-gida
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	A	30	I will speak XX this line is probably a catch-line to the second (sa-ŋara) section, not preserved
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	B	1-13	XX the small things, XX the small things, XX the great things, XX the small things, XX my property that has to be brought XX; my sheep that eat XX. The cowherd XX will not find the cow-pen, the shepherd XX will not find the sheepfold. My butter carrier will not carry the butter, my milk carrier will not carry the milk. My XX to the evil ones.
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	C	1-7	The lord made the milk abundant for me, XX. Dumuzid made the butter abundant for me, XX. When he carried the butter, butter was abundant. When he carried the milk, milk was abundant. When he carried milk and butter, he did not enter the house XX. May the lady anoint herself with finest oil!
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	C	8-16	Let me learn the way to the man, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to my Ama-ušum, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to Ama-ušumgal-ana, my milk, my cream! Let me learn the way to the esparto grass, my milk, XX, my milk! Let me learn the way to the poplars, the cool place, my milk! Let me learn the way to the grasslands, the frosty place, my milk! Let me learn the way to the innuš plants, the pure plants, my milk! Let me learn the way to the holy sheepfold, my bridegroom's sheepfold! Let me learn the way to the holy sheepfold, my Dumuzid's sheepfold!
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	C	17-18	The mistress XX. The shepherd Dumuzid XX.
t.4.08.18	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana R)	C	19	A XX song.
