id_text	text_name	version	l_no	text
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		A1-10	Ninegala, your wedding ushers are lords! XX like someone cracking eggs XX. Inana, your ushers are lords! XX is first, XX is second,  the fowler XX, and the fisherman from the depths of the reedbeds.
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		A11-20	I will send a messenger to the shepherd: let him treat me to the best butter and the best milk! I will send a messenger to my farmer: let him treat me to XX and wine! I, the lady, will send a messenger to the fowler, whose bird-nets are spread out: let him treat me to fine birds! I, Inana, will send a messenger to the fisherman too whose nets are set up in the reedbeds: let him treat me to fat carp!
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		A21-32	One of her ushers brought the gifts. The fowler brought choice birds, and the fisherman brought fat carp and put them XX my lady. The shepherd carried butter in his hands, Dumuzid carried milk on his shoulders. He carried butter and milk in containers on his shoulders, he carried milk in the churn on his shoulders. XX called out to the house; Dumuzid XX: Open the house, my lady! Open the house!
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		B1-11	The mistress XX. She stepped forward to her own mother, and stood XX expert in song: (Ningal speaks:) He will be just like XX. He will be just like XX. He will be just like XX for you. He will be just like your father. He will be just like your mother. His mother too will XX just like your mother! His father too will XX just like your father! (Dumuzid speaks:) Open the house, my lady! Open the house!
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		B12-23	At her mother's bidding, Inana bathed in water and anointed herself with sweet oil. She covered her body with a grand robe; she also took her pin. She straightened the lapis lazuli stones on her neck, and grasped her cylinder seal in her hand. The young lady stepped forward as Dumuzid pushed open the door, and like a moonbeam she came forth to him from the house. He looked at her and rejoiced in her; he embraced her and kissed her.
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		C1-8	Dumuzid XX. Lord Dumuzid XX. My master, XX home. My master, my spouse XX. Dumuzid XX. My master, take me (?) into the house. The shepherd Dumuzid said to his bride:
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		C9-13	My bride, come forth from the XX. Inana, XX the house of my personal god. I shall bring you to the house of my god. I shall get you to lie down before my god and, Inana, you shall sit with me in my god's seat of honour!
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		C14-24	When he had spoken thus to her, she sat down XX  XX stepped forward XX. XX uttered a prayer XX  XX your usher XX
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		D1-4	XX before you XX. My Ama-ušumgal, XX boat. XX the young lady:
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		D5-13	I have not carried you off to be my slave girl! XX, your table will be a splendid table. You will eat at a splendid table. Your table will be a splendid table, a splendid table. You will eat XX. My mother does not eat there, Durtur's brother does not eat there, my sister Ŋeštin-ana does not eat there; but you will eat XX.
t.4.08.29	A song of Inana and Dumuzid (Dumuzid-Inana C1)		D14-27	My bride, you should not weave cloth for me! XX, you should not spin yarn for me! XX, you should not comb out goat's wool for me! XX, you should not warp threads for me!  You should not (?) XX bread for me! Ninegala, XX. The wild bull Dumuzid XX. XX holy radiance on the horizon XX, XX radiance in heaven XX,
